Contents

Statement From Shaykh Taner 02
Sufism An Introduction 03
Origins of Sufism 05
The History of the Qadiri Rifa’i Order 06
A Biography of Abdul Qadir Geylani 07
A Biography of Ahmed er Rifa’i 13
32 Fardz (obligations) of a Muslim 15
Levels of Nafs 17
Maqam (Spiritual Station) of Arifs (Gnostic) 21
The Crown of Prophet Muhammed (a.s.) 25
Understanding Personal and Group Zikr 26
Qadiri Rifa’i Congregational Zikr Script 31
Understanding Salat 38
Congregational Salat 40
Adab of Du’a 45
Silsillah of Qadiri Rifa’i Tariqa 46
Adab: Courtesies Practiced on the Path 51
Allah’s 99 Beautiful Names 60
Glossary of Sufi Terminology 75
For New Students 81
Tithing to the Tariqat 83
Suggested Readings 84
Turkish Pronunciation Guide 85

Statement From Shaykh Taner
When we open your heart and you have the connection to Allah then you are also going to get
knowledge in Haqq al Yaqin. Abdul Qadir Geylani said we need Sufism on earth because we are the ones
who show people how to connect and communicate with Allah. Also, when somebody finds Allah and
connects to It in his heart then he is never lonely. One time my Shaykh told me, you think war is keeping
the world together; it is love that is keeping the world together. True love is expressed, lived, understood,
experienced through Sufism within yourself through your heart with Allah only. That’s why, when you are
asked to give speeches or answer questions, which you may, your theme will be this: There is enough
violence on the earth, earth can’t take this anymore and the human race has to see itself as one race and
protect its unity and love and tolerate each other and live peacefully so that we can survive and keep our
environment intact. If we kill nature the world eco-system will die, it will be like sitting on the tip of a
branch and cutting the branch where it connects with the tree. Being thankful to Allah means taking action
by taking care of the human beings first, then taking care of your environment, animals, plants, everything.
What makes everything live is peace.
Our tariqa past, present, and future, whether it is Qadiri Rifa’i or Ansari Tariqa, has never been in
politics, has never taken part in politics and will never take part in politics. We believe in secularism. We
are not afraid of governments, only of Allah. We are only on Allah’s side and all people belong to Allah no
matter what party, country, race, religion, whether they are good or bad they belong to Allah and Allah
takes care of them, nourishes them and watches over them. They are responsible for their own actions to
Allah. We are here to serve Allah. To whomever He sends us to serve and help we will help, no
discrimination. When you give speeches you talk about peace, love and togetherness, how generous Allah
is, how grateful we should be, how giving and protecting Allah is, and the 99 names of Allah - give a good
explanation of Allah. That is what present people need; Allah is the light of the universe. Allah is the base
energy for everything. All of creation is made of this energy and by this energy and of this light. Our job is
to fight our nafs (ego) to become better human beings, who will tolerate the differences in each other. Our
unity is in our differences, not as most people think in our likenesses. What makes us a whole are our
differences.
