Sufism An Introduction
by Shaykh Taner
Religion is a Science. It becomes Mysticism when you
don’t understand what you are doing. —Shaykh Taner
Bismillahir Rahmanir Rahim. What is the difference between Sufism in America, and Sufism in
Turkey? In Turkey, everybody already believes in Allah, in His Prophets, in the last day, in the first day,
and in between. Everything is settled. Now they are looking for a deeper understanding of Allah. They
want to find a way to Allah, to be with Allah and experience Allah. The way is called Tariqat.
Sufism everywhere is based on Muhammed, peace be upon him (pbuh) or aleyhi salaam (a.s.). If
you don’t recognize Muhammed (a.s.), there is no Sufism. In order to get to Allah, you have to go past the
seven layers of nafs through the doors of Shariat, Tariqat, Haqqiqat, and Marifat. Shariat is Muhammed’s
(a.s.) rules, regulations, and laws of religion; it is what our Prophet (a.s.) said. Tariqat is what he did; his
actions, how he did all these things. Haqqiqat is his reality; in order to recognize Muhammed (a.s.) you
have to recognize his reality, and vice versa. By recognizing this, you can recognize your own origin. Your
origin is connected to this reality. The existence of the universe depends on this. When you close your eyes
and you call yourself a Sufi without this recognition, you go nowhere.
My job is to tell the truth and nothing but the truth at all times. Allah said in the Quran-i-Kerim:
“One must speak the truth or be quiet.” Don’t talk about a subject you don’t know. So, if you ask me
questions that I don’t know the answer to, I say, “I don’t know,” because I won’t speak about a subject I
don’t know about. You may ask, “What kind of a Shaykh is he if he doesn’t know?” I don’t know. What
can I do? I know what Allah lets me know, and I don’t know what He doesn’t let me know. The Prophet
Muhammed (a.s.) was asked a question once, and he answered, “I’ll tell you tomorrow.” He was expecting
to speak to the angel Gabriel and Gabriel was going to give him the answer. For ten days Gabriel didn’t
show up. And Allah said to Muhammed, “Say, ‘Insha’Allah (As Allah wills).’ for there is no guarantee.”
Who am I to say, “I’ll tell you tomorrow”? I can’t do that. Nobody can do that. Sufism is this: surrendering,
submitting, truthfulness.
Back in Turkey, Sufism is action. Less talk, more action. Here in America there is more talk, less
action. Everybody talks about Sufism. It’s an intellectual club. Everybody has to talk and read books about
Sufism. How are they living? They are living the same way as they were living before they became a Sufi.
They are living the same way as they were living before they read a hundred books. Now what did all these
books do for them?
Sufism is a way of life. You have to live life. Allah wants you to live to become a human being.
That’s the road to take, to be a real human being. You cannot act and do what Allah tells you to do until
you know what Allah tells you to do. Right? So what is the purpose of the Shaykh? It’s to show you the
path. Just by joining a Sufi order doesn’t mean that you are going to go to Allah. You have to do what the
Shaykh tells you to do. He does not order you to do these things. He shows the way. If you want to go this
far, then you do this. If you don’t, if you want to go only this far, then you stay there. If you want to go
further, then you have to do this. If you don’t want to do it, that’s fine with me, I don’t care. If that’s as far
as you want to go, that’s fine with me. The Shaykh is the one who can take you from one level to the next
level and the next level until you get to Allah. He holds your hand and takes you to Allah: then you are
finished.
Here is the situation from a different angle. There is a spiritual being, who does not have a
material body. Because he does not have a material body he does not have the perceptions and
requirements and maintenance of the material body. So the spiritual being chooses a material body that can
fit his needs or situation as closely as it can get. This body is working on certain motives that is given to it
for its survival. This body does not have the finesse and the logic to see the outer limits of its motivational
system. He gets hungry; he eats food wherever he finds it. He has no rights and wrongs and does not know
what is good and what is not and so on.
But the spiritual being knows all the limitations. He knows what's good, what's bad. He knows his
Creator and knows what he wants. He is conscious of his existence and its purpose. So the spiritual being
