rides on this animal body. It becomes one with its perceptions. Thus, he understands the material world,
which is Allah's zahir (outer). In this form he has to prove that he is worthy of Allah's love. He has to prove
his sincerity, his loyalty and his focus on Allah, so that he can get in Allah's circle and not be kicked out.
Allah, the Most High, sends these people “helpers” to help them to reach their goal. On the other
hand, He also sends distractions for those who'd like to disregard the goal of reaching Allah. He gives
everybody a choice and ‘helpers’ to go in the direction they choose. A Shaykh is a Wali, a servant of Allah,
gifted to humanity to help them achieve their goals to reach Allah or Allah's closeness. He helps establish
love between you and Allah with Allah's firsthand intervention and His qualities.
When you choose a Shaykh or when a Shaykh chooses you, then the spirituality is with you to
convert you from earth to gold so you can be true with the True. Allah's consciousness will take over your
consciousness. This is another definition of surrender. When you become part of the sea, then you can
know the sea. Loved and beloved, wanter and wanted, come together with love and know one another.
The Shaykh then is the one who gives all the talks and puts out the rules and theatrical things and
here we go. People criticize me. Why isn’t he doing it this way? I cannot be as you want me to be, because
there are many of you. If I want to try to be like you, and another person isn’t like you, then I have to be
like him, and then like another. I am trying to be like what Allah wants me to be and what I’m telling you is
the same. Try to be what Allah wants you to be, not like what your friends want you to be.
Your number one priority should be Allah. Second priority: Allah. Third priority: Allah. Your
relationship with others has to depend on this relationship. For the sake of Allah, you love me. For the sake
of Allah, I love you. For the sake of Allah, you will help me. For the sake of Allah, you will help your
friend. For the sake of Allah, he’s your brother. For the sake of Allah, that’s your sister. For the sake of
Allah, we are going to clean up. For the sake of Allah, we are going to feed the poor. For the sake of Allah,
we are going to protect animals. So when you have this Allah fear, Allah love, in you, then you act properly
and decently to the other creatures in every life form— that is Allah. So be good. You have to treat
everything, every life, with respect. This is what you need to learn. Be respectful. What does this mean?
Everything is a different lesson. Be humble. How can you reach Allah if you are not humble? Without
humbleness you are making your nafs (ego) God because the only thing you respect is your [[gls:nafs|nafs]]. If
whatever you do returns to your nafs, then all you’re going to get is nothing and in the end you are back
where you started.
Allah created the entire universe. The question is this: “Why do we want Allah?” Here I am eating
and drinking, and here he is working, and so what? Who cares? Allah has created creatures, angels to
worship and praise Allah all the time. He created human beings so we could love Allah and go to Allah
willingly. How does this process happen? This process happens like this: Here you are, and Allah has
created the universe, the Quran, and everything. Allah also created ayat (signs to understand Allah’s
manifestations). This science will someday, sometime, motivate you and you’ll say, “Hey, man, there is a
reality.” Maybe you’ll wake up, and say, “Hey, I am living as Taner. I’m tired of living as Taner. Why
don’t I return to the owner and let Him live as He wants?” This is the purpose for which Allah created
you—to make you His image on earth, His viceroy on earth, to do things in His name on earth, in Allah’s
name, not in your name. But Allah put the nafs on earth. Who created the nafs? Who makes the nafs exist?
Allah does. So as long as you are playing Richard, He is playing Richard with you. That’s it. If you want
Allah to play Allah in you, then you have to give up Richard in you, because as long as Richard is there, He
is not going to show up because Allah is not a liar. If Allah shows Essence and Power through you as
Richard, then everyone will say, “Oh, Allah is Richard and so we should worship Richard.” But Richard is
not God; we can see that Richard is different. So that’s why Allah is not going to manifest Himself through
you until you give up Richard. It’s that simple. He will manifest only portions, limited measures of His
attributes. They are already being manifested in you. We call this the tea, Richard we call the cup.
So this is Sufism. This is what people back home in Turkey believe. They live for Allah. They let
themselves go and Allah takes over. They have endured many sufferings to prove their sincerity. Your fight
against your nafs is going to cause pain for your nafs, not for your heart. Your heart is always happy. When
you mention Allah’s name “Allah, Allah” while your foot is burning, your heart is happy because you are
saying, “Allah, Allah.” In Moses’ time, after Allah showed seven, nine, ten miracles, and then saved the
Jewish people from the Pharaoh, Moses went to the mountain for forty days and his people went back to
doing the same old thing. Allah says, “Do I have to give you afflictions for you to praise Me? Can’t you
praise Me when I am merciful and benevolent, gracious, and generous to you? Why can’t you praise Me
when I am generous to you?” Allah would give you more; He is generous, if you still hold onto Allah the
same way. He would keep giving to you. But we don’t yell “Allah” as we do when we are sick or have
