The History of the Qadiri Rifa’i Order

Shaykh Muhammed Ansari
The Spiritual Fathers of the Qadiri Rifa’i Sufi Order
The lineage of the Qadiri Rifa’i Sufi Order is developed through several Sufi Saints. The first are
Abdul Qadir Geylani and Ahmed er Rifa’i. These two teachers were cousins, and lived in the area of
Baghdad approximately more than a thousand years ago (the 11th century). Each founded a school of
Sufism to address the needs of different types of spiritual seekers. Each school evolved independently until
the nineteenth century when two more Saints, Muhammed Ansari, a high ranking teacher of the Rifa’i
Order, and Abdullah Hashimi of the Qadiri Order, were guided to bring together the teachings and practices
of both Tariqas, forming a new school. These teachings were eventually handed down to Shaykh
Muhyiddin Ansari, and then to Shaykh Taner (this lineage is called silsila). As each new Shaykh receives
the ijaza (license to teach Sufism from their Shaykh) they will add their name to the silsila list.
The Tariqa has strong ties with the Naqshbandi, Bektashi, Mevlevi and Chisti orders. The present
Murshid of our Tariqa, Shaykh Taner Ansari, is connected to these lineages through his family, and by the
instruction of his teacher, has received training under Shaykhs of each of these tariqas to complete his
training.
All Shaykhs, including Shaykh Taner, have been Seyyids (descendants of the Prophet (a.s.)). This
is the Prophet’s (a.s.) family Tariqa. This is Allah’s Tariqa, Allah’s family. And those who are in this
Tariqa are in Allah’s family as well.
Shaykh Muhyiddin Ansari, who initiated the present phase of the Tariqa's activities, further
refined the school.
The school, as it exists today in the USA, is also known as "Tariqatiya Ansaryia" (The Path of the
Helpers). Its emphasis is on service to Allah by service to all life.
• • • •
History of the Dergah in Istanbul
Like the Kaba was renewed or rebuilt by Ibrahim (a.s.) there too was a Dergah (gathering place
where zikr and sohbet are held) in Istanbul, Kasimpasha several hundred years ago called Ayn’i Ali Baba
Dergah founded by Shaykh Ayn’i Ali Baba, a Rifa’i. By 1910, the building where the Tekke was housed
lay in ruins due to severe neglect.
Shaykh Muhammed Ansari, who was born in Baghdad, moved to Erzinçan in northeastern Turkey
in the early 1900’s. He was a descendant of both Abdul Qadir al Geylani and Ahmed er Rifa’i and was a
Shaykh of the Rifa’i order. In Turkey after meeting Shaykh Abdullah Hashimi, a Qadiri and a Rifai, he
worked with him for many years. When Shaykh Muhammed Ansari strengthened his connection to the
Qadiri Order, Shaykh Abdullah Hashimi sent him to Istanbul to establish the Qadiri Rifa’i Tariqa and
revive the Ayn’i Ali Baba Tekke.
Sometime after arriving in Istanbul, Shaykh Muhammed Ansari came across a soldier who was
stabbed while trying to arrest someone. He lay mortally wounded. Shaykh Muhammed Ansari, through his
