lineage, had the powers to heal and so miraculously cured the soldier. Upon hearing how the soldier’s life
was saved, Sultan Abdul Hamid, a Qadiri himself (most of the Ottomans were Sufis), wanted to commend
and reward the Shaykh. He asked him what he would like. The Shaykh replied that he would like
permission to build a Sufi center on the foundation of the ruined Ayn’i Ali Baba Tekke. With the consent
of the Sultan, Shaykh Muhammed Ansari and his wife rebuilt the Tekke with their bare hands. (Since then
the Tekke has been renovated several times.)
Shaykh Muhammed Ansari headed the Qadiri Rifa’i Tariqa in the Ayn’i Ali Baba Tekke from
1915 until his death. His son, Shaykh Muhyiddin Ansari, born in Erzinçan, succeeded him. As Qutb of his
time, Shaykh Muhyiddin Ansari raised 101 Khalifas and many thousand dervishes all over Turkey,
Germany, and the former Yugoslavia. One of his Khalifas is Shaykh Jemali, Shaykh of Bosnia. In 1978 just
before Shaykh Muhyiddin Ansari died, he told the members of Dergah to run the tekke as it had been run in
his time.
It was under the leadership of Shaykh Nureddin Ozal, the Ayn’i Ali Baba Tekke that continued to
be a center of light as in Shaykh Muhyiddin’s time. Shaykh Nureddin Ozal’s exemplary devotion to his
Shaykh in and out of his presence set the standard of how murids should treat their Shaykh. While raising
ten Khalifas, he served everyone with whom he came in contact with humility and love.
In May 1993, Shaykh Nureddin Ozal passed away. When the timing was right, Shaykh Muhyiddin
passed the tasarruf of the order to Shaykh Taner directly. He took Shaykh Taner by the hand and
surrendered him to the Pirs. It is the Pirs that are continuing to educate Shaykh Taner. Under the guidance
of Es-Seyyid Es-Shaykh Taner Ansari and by order of his Shaykh, Es-Seyyid Es-Shaykh Muhyiddin
Ansari, a new order of Qadiri Rifa’i was founded known as the Tariqati Ansariya or Ansari Tariqa of the
Qadiri Rifa’i Tariqa. The center of the Tariqati Ansariya is now in America with the Pir Es-Seyyid Es-Shaykh Taner Ansari Tarsusi er Rifa’i el Qadiri.
A Biography of Abdul Qadir Geylani

Abdul Qadir Geylani is to the left
“When he has renounced the world so that he does not take it on account of his own desire, not in
compliance with the urges of his own self, but just to fulfill the commandment of Allah, he is then
commanded to talk to the world and establish contact with it because now there is a portion for him in it
which cannot be discarded and has not been created for any other person.” —Abdul Qadir al Geylani
Seyyid Muhyiddin Abu Muhammed Abdul Qadir Geylani was born on the Night of Power (hence
his name, Abdul Qadir), during Ramadan in 470 A.H. (1077 A.D.). He was born in Nayf in Geylan, Persia.
He passed to the other side at the age of 91 on the eleventh of Rabi al-Thani, 561 A.H. (1166 A.D.). His
tomb is in Baghdad, where thousands of people continue to visit it daily.
His father was Seyyid Musa Jangi Dost and his mother was Ummul Khayr Fatima bint al-Shaykh
Abdullah Sumi. Because both of his parents were seyyids (descendants of the Prophet, pbuh), his lineage is
