called the Silsiletil Zehep (the Golden Chain). On his mother’s side, his lineage was: Jemal Muhammed,
Mahmut, Tahir, Ibi Ata Abdullah, Kenaleddin, Isa, Ali Alauddin, Muhammedil Jevat, Imam Ali Riza,
Imam Musel Kazim, Imam Jaferils Sadik, Imam Muhammedil Bakir, Imam Ali Zeynel Abidin, Hazreti
Husayn, whose mother was Hazreti Fatima, the daughter of the Prophet Muhammed (pbuh). On his father’s
side, his lineage was Abdullah, Yahya Ezzhit, Muhammed, Davut, Musa, Abdullah, Musel Jun, Abdullah
Mahiz, Hasenul Musemma, Hazreti Hasan, whose mother was Hazreti Fatima, the daughter of our Prophet
Muhammed (pbuh).
Abdul Qadir Geylani is accepted as one of the four qutbs of all time. He was known as the Gavsul
Azam (the Great Helper, the human being who has reached the highest possible level), the Pole of Power,
Qutbul Rabbani (the Divine or Devout Qutb), Sultanul Awliya (King of the Saints), Qutbul Azam (the
Greatest Qutb) and as the biggest helper of people in need. He was also known as Bazul Eshep (the Grey
Hawk). When he was ten years old, his mother told him a story. “One day many years ago, I was traveling
in the desert. A Bedouin in black clothing blocked the road I was on and attacked me. At that time, I started
screaming for help. Suddenly, out of nowhere, a big hawk appeared, attacked the Bedouin, and kept
attacking until the Bedouin fled. After that, it grabbed my head covering and disappeared into the sky. I still
wonder about this bird.” Hz. Abdul Qadir smiled, and left his mother. A few moments later, he returned
with his mother’s head covering and said “Mother, here is your head covering. That bird you saw was I.”
He received his first education in his hometown. When he was 12, his mother received a message
to send him to Baghdad. She knew she was going to pass away and she wanted him to be on Allah’s path.
In Baghdad, he studied Islamic law, theology, and halwet (retreat). From one source we know that “Hz.
Geylani lived in ruins near Baghdad for twenty-five years in retreat and fighting with his nafs. He has left
the world completely, and for the last forty days he hasn’t eaten anything.”
According to one biographer, he was the person who took care of Abu Hanifa’s tomb. His first
Shaykh was Hammad ibn Muslim al-Dabbas. He studied with other Shaykhs as well, such as Abusaid bin
Ali Mahzumidir, from the Hanbali School.
During Geylani’s lifetime, Baghdad was a cultural center for Sufism and science. Even in a time
like that, Abdul Qadir Geylani was famous in the whole Islamic world for his talks, miracles, poems, and
books. Abdul Qadir Geylani is one of the greatest Sufis who has ever lived, one of the most talked and
written about. He is very respected in both the Islamic and Sufi communities.
Hz. Geylani performed numerous miracles that have been recorded in many books. During his
time many Christians and Jews became Muslims and many of his students became famous walis (saints and
teachers). Hz. Abdul Qadir was tall, olive-skinned, had long eyelashes and blue eyes, a beautiful face, and
long hair. He was very humble and beautifully dressed. When he spoke, the audience would be spellbound
and enraptured by his words and personality. Love has been his guide.
Before Abdul Qadir’s birth, his father, Seyyid Musa Jangi Dost, had a dream. Hazreti Muhammed
(pbuh), his family, and all the chosen awliya (saints) were gathered. Lover of Allah, Owner of Hearts,
Hazreti Muhammed (pbuh) said, “O Musa, O my son. All-powerful and Owner of Everything, Allah the
Most Great has given you a son. This child is my child. His rank is above all the awliya. Good tidings and
God’s blessings upon you.” When Musa woke up in the morning, his heart was happy and the whole sky
was filled with Allah’s Nur (Light).
When Hz. Abdul Qadir was born, he did not act like any other child. During Ramadan, he would
not nurse during daylight hours. When people were not sure whether Ramadan had started or ended, they
would come to his mother and ask, “Is he nursing or not?”
Young Geylani was burning with love of learning. He asked his mother for permission to go to
Baghdad to study. His mother couldn’t tolerate her son’s sincere pleading. When they were parting, she
said, “O my son, maybe we are parting forever. If you want to please Allah and me, don’t ever stray from
the straight path. Never lie. Allah is with the truthful.” His mother put forty golden pieces into a small
pouch and sewed it into his hirka (coat). He kissed his mother’s hand and said, “I promise I will always be
on the straight path.” They cried and parted, and he left with a caravan going to Baghdad. Thieves attacked
the caravan. They questioned the travelers about what they brought with them. When it was Hz. Abdul
Qadir’s turn, one asked him what he had. Remembering the promise to his mother, he said, ”I have forty
gold pieces.” When the thief heard this, he laughed very hard because Hz. Abdul Qadir was a youth who
didn’t seem to possess forty gold pieces, and he left. Another thief came, asked the same question, and got
the same answer. They told the chief of the thieves what the youth had said, who then asked Hz. Abdul
Qadir, “What do you have?” “I have forty golden pieces sewn into my coat.” The chief ordered his men to
search his coat and found the gold. The chief asked in amazement, “Son, why did you say you had money
