on you?” Hz. Abdul Qadir said, “When I was parting with my mother, I promised in Allah’s name that I
would not lie. Would I break my promise for forty gold pieces?” When the chief heard these pure and
blessed words, he started crying and striking his forehead with his hand in remorse. “Alas, we had
promised to Allah, too. For many years we followed the Devil and broke our promise. We did many bad
things. What are we going to say when we are in Allah’s presence? What is going to happen to us?” The
chief and his followers repented in the presence of Abdul Qadir al Geylani, and gave back whatever they
were stealing.
Hz. Abdul Qadir Geylani spent twenty-five years in Baghdad doing itikaf, a retreat, where he
protected himself from the evil and gossip of the world by living alone in ruins at Burjul Ajemi. The last
forty days, he said “O Allah, I will not eat or drink anything unless you give it to me with your own hands.”
Although a person from Rijali gayip (people only Allah knows about, one of Allah’s hidden servants) had
brought dinner and Hz. Qadir had felt faint from hunger, he did not eat. At that time, a great scholar and the
Shaykh who was the qutb, Hz. Ibu Sait Mahzumi, came and wanted to take him home. Hz. Abdul Qadir did
not accept his offer. Al Khidr appeared, and told him to accept the offer by Allah’s order. After this, Hz.
Abdul Qadir accepted Shaykh Mahzumi’s offer. The Shaykh took him home and fed him and gave him
water with his own hands, and made him his khalifa. Hz. Abdul Qadir stayed there for eight years
undergoing ascetic austerities and worshipping Allah.
When Hz. Geylani was 51 years old, our Prophet (pbuh) appeared to him in bodily form and said,
“Why are you silent?” Hz. Pir said, “O ancestor, I am from Persia. How can I get up and say anything
before the scholars of Baghdad?” Muhammed (pbuh) said, “Open your mouth” and went through the
motion of spitting seven times into Hz. Pir’s mouth. “Preach to people with truthfulness and wisdom.”
When Hz. Pir offered the Morning Prayer and stood to give a talk, many people gathered around him.
When he saw all these people with their eyes on him, he couldn’t speak. At that moment, Hz. Ali appeared
over his head and asked, “My son, why aren’t you talking?” Geylani remarked, “All these people made me
tongue-tied.” Hz. Ali said, “Open your mouth,” and made the motion of spitting five times into his mouth.
At that moment, Hz. Abdul Qadir al Geylani’s tongue was freed. He gave such a sermon as nobody in
Baghdad had heard before. He said, “Let’s leave the past and look at our situation now. Let’s be in the
present,” and then people started crying and screaming because of the divine magnetism he radiated. When
he spoke, many people would do sema (whirling) because of the ecstasy they experienced. Hz. Pir gave
sermons there for forty years.
One day a hundred scholars came from Damascus to question Hz. Geylani. When he said, “Ask
me your questions,” they forgot their questions and just sat gazing at him. Then Hz. Abdul Qadir answered
their questions, one by one, without their having asked them.
One day a merchant from Baghdad, Abu Muzaffer, decided to go to Damascus, but first he went to
his Shaykh, Hamad, and asked his advice. The Shaykh told him, “If you go to Damascus, you will be killed
and whatever you have will go to the thieves. This is what I saw in ‘Levhi Mahfuz’ [a book where whatever
will happen in the universe is written].” When the merchant heard this, he grew very sad. As he was going
back home, he met Hz. Geylani and told him what had happened. Hz. Pir said, “Go ahead to Damascus;
you will come back safe.” So the merchant trusted Abdul Qadir al Geylani and traveled to Damascus,
where he earned a thousand dollars, which he put into a pouch. When he went to relieve himself he forgot
his pouch and left it there, and then went back to the mosque, where he became very tired and fell asleep.
In his dream, many thieves attacked and killed him and stole all he had. When he awakened, he looked and
found blood on his neck. He remembered his pouch, went back and found it hanging from the branch of a
tree. As he returned to Baghdad, he was pondering whether to visit Hz. Geylani or his Shaykh first. While
he was thinking, his Shaykh appeared to him and said, “Visit Hz. Abdul Qadir first. Because of his prayer,
he made what was going to befall on you occur in the dream form.”
A hundred and fifty years after Hz. Geylani’s death, people asked Shah Bahauddin Naqshband (Pir
of the Naqshbandi order), “Gawsul Azam Hz. Abdul Qadir said, ‘My foot is on the shoulders of the awliya’
What do you think about this?” Hz. Naqshiband said, “May Hz. Geylani’s foot be upon my eyes and my
vision too.”
One day Shaykh Bahauddin was traveling in the desert and saw Al Khidr. Al Khidr transported
him within a second to the presence of Abdul Qadir al Geylani. Shaykh Bahauddin (whose name was not
yet Naqshband) said, “O One who holds hands with the universe, hold my hand so they will call you the
Holder of Hands” (In biat, one holds the hand of the Shaykh to receive Allah’s blessing. Also when
someone needed to be rescued, they held out their hand). Hz. Pir placed his hand on Bahauddin’s heart and
said, “O the holder of the adornment of the worlds, hold my adornment so that they can call you
