‘Naqshiband (the one who adorns)’.” Then Hz. Naqshband recited the following poem, which is inscribed
on both the tombs of Abdul Qadir Geylani and Bahauddin Naqshband:
“The King of this world and the hereafter is Shah Abdul Qadir.
The head of the children of Adam is Shah Abdul Qadir.
Sun, moon, heavens, the throne and the pen,
They all get their light from the heart of Abdul Qadir.”
One day some fundamentalists asked Shaykh Abdul Qadir, “Why are you doing sema? According
to Sharia, this is haram.” He said, “What is the punishment for doing something that is haram on purpose?”
They said, “The punishment is death.” Hz. Geylani said, “All right, when I start doing sema, hit me with
axes and knives and kill me.” One day when Hz. Pir was doing sema, they attacked him with axes. They hit
him hard, but their axes bent and nothing happened to Hz. Abdul Qadir, who was burning with Allah’s
love.
One day, a Christian and Muslim were arguing about whether Hz. Isa (Jesus, pbuh) or Hz.
Muhammed (pbuh) was greater. The Muslim was saying, “Allah created the whole universe for our Prophet
(pbuh).” The Christian, whose name was Nasrani, said, “But Hz. Isa was better than your Prophet.” Hz.
Abdul Qadir was walking by and heard the argument. He asked the Christian, “How are you going to prove
to me that Hz. Isa was greater?” to which Nasrani replied, “Hz. Isa made the dead come alive.” Hz. Abdul
Qadir said, “O Nasrani, I am not a Prophet, I am only a slave of Allah who is a follower and a lover of
Muhammed (pbuh). Let’s go to a cemetery. Let me show you how I make the dead come alive, whose
bones have rotten, whose bodies have melted away.” Nasrani accepted this and they went to a cemetery.
Hz. Pir asked, “O Nasrani, how did your prophet make the dead come alive, and how did he call out to
them?” Nasrani responded, “Hz. Isa used to say, ‘Get up with Allah’s permission’.” Hz. Abdul Qadir then
said, “O Nasrani, look, this cemetery has no life in it. I will call out to the person in this tomb and
somebody will emerge from it.” He proceeded to extend his hand towards the tomb and called out, “Get up
with Allah’s permission!” The tomb opened up and an old man came out and stood with his hands folded in
the presence of Abdul Qadir. Nasrani watched in amazement, repeated the shahadah,“La ilaha illallah,
Muhammedur Rasulullah,” and became Muslim. Hz. Pir then made a sign to the corpse to go back and they
left.
During Ramadan, while Hz. Geylani was staying in Baghdad, seventy people invited him for Iftar
(to break his fast at sunset). Hz. Pir accepted all their invitations, and broke his fast with all of them in
separate houses. In the morning this miracle was discussed all over Baghdad. One of the dervishes in the
dergah thought, “How could this be? Last night the Pir was with us.” The door opened, and Abdul Qadir
entered and said, “O my son, what they say about me is true. I was present at all the dinners.”
One day Shaykh Mehmet Suhreverdi’s wife came to Hz. Abdul Qadir and asked him to pray to
Allah so she could have a son; she had no children at all. When Hz. Pir asked Allah, “Ya Rabbi, please give
this woman a son,” he heard Allah respond, “Ya Gavsul Azam, there are no children in her destiny.” Hz.
Abdul Qadir begged Allah three times and he met with the same answer each time. He took his hirka sherif
(dervish coat) off and throwing it away, cried out, “Ya Rabbi, unless you give her a son I will not wear this
hirka [meaning he would stop being a dervish].” At that moment, our Prophet Muhammed (pbuh) appeared.
He took the hirka and returned it to Hz. Pir and said, “O my son who is the light of my eyes, this is
affectionate play, pretending reluctance, between lover and God. Allah has accepted your prayer and gave
this lady a son.” When Hz. Geylani heard this, he praised Allah very highly, went to the woman and told
her she was going to have a son. However, after some time she gave birth to a girl. The woman wrapped
the child in a red cloth and brought it to Hz. Pir and said, “O Sultan of the Universes, I asked for a son from
Allah, but He has given me a daughter.” The Bazul Eshep took the child, held her, and started gazing into
the child’s eyes. The girl miraculously turned into a boy. Hz. Pir returned the child to the mother and told
her, “This child is my son. Name him Shaykh Shehabeddin Suhreverdi. May his life be long, his dervishes
many.” And he prayed for the child, who grew up to become very famous.
He raised Shaykh Sadii Shirazi who wrote Gulistan (the Rose Garden).
One day, Shaykh Muhammeddin bin Ali came to the Pir and said, “Ya Gavsul Azam, I am an old
man and I can’t have children. Please pray to Allah so that He will bless me with a child.” Hz. Pir
answered, “You don’t have any children in your destiny, but I have a son in my destiny. Would you like to
have that one?” When the Shaykh accepted Hz. Pir’s offer, he told him to come closer and they sat with
their backs touching. Shaykh Muhammeddin bin Ali later said: “When our backs touched each other, I felt
