something warm pouring from my neck to my waist.” Later the Shaykh had a son and named him
“Muhyiddin” at the order of Hz. Pir (Muhyiddin was Hz. Geylani’s registered name at birth). This child
later became famous with the name “Muhyiddini Arabi.”
One day, the Sultan of that time invited Hz. Pir to dinner. There was a black magician at the same
table. A big dish was placed in the middle of the table. The Sultan said, “Please help yourself.” When Hz.
Pir took the food and was about to put it in his mouth, the black magician made the bite in his hand
disappear. Abdul Qadir remained quiet and reached for another bite, but the magician did the same thing
and that bite also disappeared. The Sultan was laughing very hard and inviting Hz. Pir to eat again,
mockingly repeated, “Please help yourself.” Hz. Pir again reached for a bite of food. The black magician
did something again and this time all the food on the table disappeared. There was a pillow with a lion’s
picture on the couch. Hz. Geylani placed his hand on the couch and said “Huz Ya esed (Appear O lion)!” A
huge lion leapt out, attacked the black magician, and carried him back into the pillow. The Sultan grew
very amazed and frightened. He couldn’t speak because of his fear. The black magician had disappeared.
One day somebody was talking about Abdul Qadir Geylani and disparagingly said, “I don’t know
any awliya who was rich like this!” After a while, he fell asleep. In his dream, he saw the Judgment Day.
Each person’s good and bad deeds were getting weighed with the scale made of light. Sinners were on one
side and those who had done good deeds were on the other. When this man’s turn came, he was put on the
side of the people who were going to Paradise. At that moment, a Jew came out of the crowd screaming,
“This man owes me ten dollars; he didn’t give it to me. I want justice!” The angels took him from the side
of the people of Paradise and put him with the people who were going to Hell. On the way to Hell, a light
appeared before them, as well as a group of people mounted on horses, very richly dressed with gold and
jewelry. The horseman at the head of the group stopped the people who were going to Hell and said,
“There’s a person who’s going to Paradise here; why is he going to go to Hell?” The dreamer, who had
been close to going to Paradise, jumped out of the crowd and started begging, “O my Sultan, I owed a Jew
ten dollars, that’s why I’m going to Hell, please help me, please save me!” The Sultan got a money pouch
from somebody behind him, took money out of the pouch, gave it to the Jew, and saved the man. This
made the man very happy and he started crying from happiness at being saved from Hell. He stopped
crying, and lifting his gaze to the face of the Sultan, who had given him the money, saw that it was Abdul
Qadir Geylani seated on horseback and gazing down at him. When the man awoke, he went immediately to
Abdul Qadir’s presence and asked for forgiveness because of his wrong thoughts and words about Hz.
Geylani. Our Pir replied, “Do you understand now why we are rich? We spend all our money to protect and
help people who love Allah. If Ibrahim Edhem lived in my time, I would not let him leave his money,
property and empire, because the best worship is to live with material things but not to let them get into
your heart.” (Ibrahim Edhem was the king who left his throne to be a wandering dervish.)
Whenever Hz. Abdul Qadir went for a walk, the people would go out just to see his face. One look
from him would elevate people to the highest degrees and help many people’s problems. To say his name,
even centuries later, still comforts people’s hearts. He is the Al Khizr and Al Ilyas of the spiritual world (Al
Ilyas was the Al Khidr of the sea).
In 561 A.H., on the ninth day of Rabiulahir, when Hz. Geylani was 91 years old, the sun of this
world set in this world and rose in the hearts of the people he had loved. They buried him at night because
the place was so crowded that they couldn’t bury him during the day. His son, Seyyid Abdul Wahhab led
the funeral prayers. Hz. Abdul Qadir’s last words were: “O my beautiful children, stay away from me. I am
here with you but there are many unseen people standing around me; make space for them. There are many
blessings in being with these unseen people.” Hz. Pir gave salaams to the unseen people and cried out, “La
ilaha illallah Muhammedur Rasulullah, Allah, Allah, Allah!” and passed from this world.
• • • •
Moments from Hz. Abdul Qadir’s Life
Mehmet el-Huseyni said: “I heard from my father that Hz. Abdul Qadir used to talk about 13 ilms
(sciences) and in his school he used to teach tafsir (interpretation of the Quran) and hadiths. He used to read
the Quran seven different ways (different methods of recitation, seven different Maqams). Whenever he
read the Quran, those who were listening to him would become ecstatic.”
Shaykh Aliyyul Heyti recounts this incident: “Hz. Abdul Qadir, Baka bin Batur, and I went to the
tomb of Imam Ahmad bin Hambel (may Allah be pleased with him). When we got to the tomb, a curtain
