was lifted from my eyes and I saw Hz. Hambel stand up and come towards Hz. Abdul Qadir. He hugged
Hz. Pir and gave him a spiritual cloak. Hz. Hambel asked Hz. Pir, ‘Help me in the sciences of Sharia
(religious law) and Haqqiqa (Reality).’ Hz. Gavs accepted his wish.”
Hizir bin Abbasul Musabi said in the year of 551 A.H., “I was in Baghdad at Hz. Gavs’ school.
One day I had a dream. I was in a big meydan (outdoor meeting place) and all the awliya were there. Hz.
Abdul Qadir was right in the middle of them. I looked and some of the people there only had amame
(Arabic hats) on their heads, and some people had one cloth wrapped on their hat, and others had two
wrapped on their hat. I looked at Hz. Abdul Qadir and I saw that he had three cloths wrapped on his hat.
This made me contemplate the meaning of his three wrappings. While I was thinking of this I awoke. I
looked, and Hz. Gavs was standing by me and smiling at me. He said, ‘Ya Hizir, those layers you are
curious about: one is for ilmi Sharia, one is for ilmi Haqqiqa, and the other is to show the high level of
these.’”
One day Yahya bin Edip went to a speech of Hz. Pir’s and he hid a thread under his coat. Each
time Hz. Pir answered a question he was going to ask but hadn’t asked outwardly, he tied a knot in his
thread. He was at the back of the group, hiding behind people, just listening. He felt that Hz. Geylani was
talking only to him that day, and as he heard his answers, he kept formulating more precise questions to test
his theory. After a while, Hz. Pir yelled at him, “Here I am trying to unknot your problems, and you’re
trying to knot them again. Is this appropriate?” Hz. Gavs had discovered what he was doing.
It is Allah who gives people their wishes. Allah uses walis as an instrument to do these things.
Although it appears to come from the walis, it’s actually from Allah. An old woman named Rose had a
daughter who died, leaving six children for the grandmother to take care of. This grandmother used to make
600 dirham of thread every week as her livelihood. Every week she would take it to the bazaar and with the
money she made would try to take care of her grandchildren. This pure-hearted lady prayed to Allah all the
time, “Ya Rabb, please send sustenance for these children; I can’t take care of them.” One day she
assembled all her thread very early in the morning and decided to go to the bazaar. As she was passing in
front of Hz. Pir’s house, he saw the woman and said “Hello, sister Rose, welcome. Where are you going?”
She answered that she was going to the bazaar to sell her thread. The Shaykh replied, “Give it to me, I will
sell it for you.” The woman became very happy, said, “It would be your generosity,” and started to leave.
The Shaykh threw the thread on the roof of the mosque as though he was joking. A big bird came and took
the thread and flew away. When the grandmother and the dervishes saw this, they asked, “What kind of a
joke is this?” The dervishes made a sign to the lady not to say anything, because they knew there was a
reason behind every joke of Hz. Pir’s. The Shaykh told the woman, “Please don’t worry about it, I sent
your thread so it would get sold. When it is sold, come to me, I will give you your money.” Rose returned
to her home. The next day she came to the Shaykh and asked if her thread had been sold. The Shaykh said,
“Yes, it is sold, but I did not get the money yet. Please be patient until the money comes.” A week later she
came back. The Shaykh said, “Come back tomorrow.” The old woman was not happy with what happened,
and she started complaining to the dervishes. The dervishes urged her, “Please don’t get upset; we know
there is divine wisdom behind this. Wait a couple of days and see what happens.” She went home again. A
little while later, a couple of merchants came to Hz. Pir and, kissing his feet and thanking him, gave him a
large amount of money. After they left the Shaykh’s presence, the dervishes stopped the merchants and
asked them why they gave this amount of money to the Shaykh. The merchants said, “The money belongs
to the Shaykh. We are merchants and we were traveling on the sea when a big storm came and shredded
our sails to pieces. We were close to death. After the storm had passed, we had no sails and the ship
wouldn’t move. We asked the captain, “How can we solve this problem?” The captain told us that if we had
600 dirham of thread, we could sew the sails and the ship would sail again. We started wailing, “O our
Sultan Abdul Qadir, give us 600 dirham of thread, we will give you a thousand filori from our
merchandise.” Suddenly we saw this big bird bringing the thread and dropping it on the ship. We measured
it, and it was 600 dirham. As soon as we fixed the sail, the ship started moving, and that’s how we were
saved. To keep our promise, we brought the money and gave it to the Shaykh.” The next day the old lady
came and asked, “O my master, did my money come?” The Shaykh took the thousand filori and gave it to
the woman. She went home and never had to worry about providing for her grandchildren again, and she
became a dervish of Shaykh Abdul Qadir’s. There are many games on this path; the Shaykhs have many
games. Some people look on these as hardship, others look on them as beauty. There is no solution except
surrendering. If Allah wants, he will use one bird as an instrument for salvation.
This story is taken from the book “Muzekkin Nufus,” written by Izniki Eshrefoglu. One day Hz.
Abdul Qadir said, “Two hundred years from now, a Shaykh will come out from Horasan with the name of
