Bahauddin. He will be very knowledgeable and a great person.” These words proved to be correct. Shaykh
Bahauddin came forth in Horasan. Shaykh Gulal gave him an assignment to work with the Ismi Jalal
(Name of Majesty) “Allah.” As he was doing this, he was meditating but the name would only stay on his
lips. It wasn’t going into his heart, so he was suffering. In this disturbed state, as he was traveling in the
prairie, Al Khidr came. He understood his condition immediately and said, “O Bahauddin, don’t worry.
I’m sure there’s a cure for your problem, too.” Then the Shaykh answered, “How can there be a cure for my
problem?” Al Khidr said, “On earth, there is a wali with a big tassarruf (executive power). His name is Hz.
Abdul Qadir. His tomb is in Baghdad. Whoever asks for his help, he reaches out to them.” Upon hearing this,
Bahauddin asked for help from the Gavsul Azam. And that night, in a vision, he found himself in the
presence of Abdul Qadir and told him his problem. Hz. Gavsul Azam said, “Allah,” and put his hand on
Bahauddin’s chest. At that moment, all the frustration, stress, and trouble left Bahauddin and the doors of
wisdom opened. When he woke up in the morning, he felt joyful. When he turned his eyes to the sky, he
found “Allah” written in light. And his name became as told above, Naqshband. He himself told the story
in this manner.
A Biography of Ahmed Er Rifa’i
Ahmed Er Rifa’i is to the right
Seyyid Ahmed er Rifa’i was born in the first half of Rajab in the Muslim year of 512 A.H. (1119
A.D.) on a Thursday. His birthplace was in the town of Ummu Abeyde in the township of Beta in the
province of Basra, Iraq. He passed to the other side on Thursday, Jamadi al-Awwal 22, 578 A.H. (1183
A.D.), in the town of Wasit, in Basra, Iraq.
His father was Seyyid Ali Abu’l Hasan. His mother was Fatima ul-Anseri bint Yahya Nijjeri. His
Shaykh was Aleyyul Wasiti. His maternal uncle, who helped raise him, was Shaykh Mansur Rabbani.
Ahmed er Rifa’i was related to our Prophet (pbuh) from both his father’s and mother’s sides by
blood. His paternal lineage was Seyyid Ahmed er Rifa’i, Ibni Seyyid Ali, Ibni Seyyid Yahya, Ibni Seyyid
Sabit, Ibni Seyyid Hazim, Ibni Seyyid Ali, Ibni Seyyid Ebilmekerim Rufael Hasanulmekki, Ibni Elseyyit
Mehdi, Ibni Esseyyit Mehmet Ebi Kasim, Ibni Esseyyit Elhasan, Ibni Esseyyit Elhuseyin, Ibni Esseyyit
Ahmet, Ibni Esseyyit Musa ul-Sani, Ibni Esseyyit Imam Ibrahimulmurtaza, Ibni Imam Musa-ulkazim,
Imam Jaferi Sadik, Ibni Imam Muhammed Bakir, Ibni Imam Zeynelabidin, Ibni Imam Elsehit Huseyin,
Ibni Emirulmuminin Aliyelmurtaza.
Before Ahmed er Rifa’i’s birth, his maternal uncle, a famous Shaykh, Mansur Rabbani, had seen
our prophet Hz. Muhammed (pbuh) and was told that his sister would have a male child who would be
famous and be known by the name “Rifa’i.” When the child reached the proper age for Sufism, he should
be sent to Shaykh Aleyyul Vasiti for education and training.
Ahmed er Rifa’i’s father passed away when his son was 7 years old. Seyyid Ali died in 519 A.H.;
he is buried in Baghdad. So Ahmed er Rifa’i’s maternal uncle started taking care of the little boy. After a
while he was sent to Shaykh Vasiti in accordance with his uncle’s vision. Shaykh Mansur has said that as
