long as Ahmed er Rifa’i stayed with him, he saw many miracles come through the boy and that many
blessings came through him for everyone.
Ahmed er Rifa’i showed ability and wisdom beyond his age when he began his education under
Shaykh Vasiti. He acquired a high maqam by explaining the book of the Shafi School called Tanbih.
Many miracles occurred through Ahmed er Rifa’i. One of the most widely known is the one that gave him
the name “Ebul alemeyin” (the Father of Two Banners). In the year 555 A.H., when he was 43 years old,
Hz. Rifa’i went on Hajj. He didn’t wear the usual traveling clothes of Seyyids (the relatives of the Prophet,
pbuh, could be recognized by their clothes). There is a certain section of the Prophet’s (pbuh) tomb in
Medina that only blood relatives of the Prophet (pbuh) may enter. The guard at the door would not allow
him in, as he wanted to know the proof that Ahmed er Rifa’i was related to the Prophet (pbuh). Ahmed er
Rifa’i was sad and yelled towards our Prophet’s (pbuh) tomb, “As-salaamu alaykum, ya jeddi (Peace be on
you, my ancestor).” Our Prophet (pbuh) answered, saying “Walaykum salaam, ya waladi (And peace be on
you, my son).” Muhammed’s (pbuh) hand came out of the tomb and our Pir kissed the Prophet’s (pbuh)
hand. When people saw this miracle, they went into a state of wajd (ecstasy) and began stabbing
themselves with their swords and knives. When the ecstasy passed, there were people lying all over the
floor covered with blood, so Ahmed er Rifa’i returned them to their normal health. After that, our Pir was
famous for possessing the gift of healing.
Ahmed er Rifa’i is known as one of the four major tariqa pirs (“Aktab-i erbaa,” a qutb of the time,
not just of a local area). Another major qutb was Abdul Qadir al Geylani.
One day somebody asked Abdul Qadir Geylani (who was Ahmed er Rifa’i’s cousin), “Ya Hazret,
what is love?” Hz. Geylani told the person to go ask this question to Seyyid Ahmed er Rifa’i. After sending
Hz. Geylani’s salaams to Hz. Rifa’i, he asked, “What is love?” When Ahmed er Rifa’i heard this question,
he stood up, saying, “Love is fire, love is fire.” He began whirling until he passed into the unseen and
disappeared. When the person saw this, he was disturbed because he didn’t understand what was
happening. At that moment, the spiritual presence of Abdul Qadir Geylani appeared and told him to look
for the spot where his brother Ahmed er Rifa’i had vanished, and to pour rosewater on that spot. The person
did this and within a couple of moments, Seyyid Ahmed er Rifa’i appeared, whirling in the exact same
place. When the man went back to Baghdad, he visited Hz. Geylani, who asked him, “Did you see love?
My brother Seyyid Rifa’i has reached stations that many walis have not been able to reach.” Seyyid Ahmed
er Rifa’i also deeply loved and respected Abdul Qadir Geylani and told his students that whoever visited
Baghdad without visiting Hz. Geylani’s tomb would not be welcomed by Allah or by them.
Ebu Musa el-Haddadi said that in the town of Haddahiye there was a woman whose children were
always stillborn. This lady said, if I have a child, I would give this child in the service of Ahmed er Rifa’i.
A few years later she had a daughter who was hunchbacked and lame. Because of this, the other children in
the village always made fun of her. One day, Ahmed er Rifa’i was visiting this town and all the people
went to the road to see him. The little girl threw herself at Rifa’i’s feet and cried out, “You are my mother’s
Shaykh; please heal me from these problems!” and wept. When Hz. Rifa’i saw her situation he cried as
well, and praying over her, he placed his hands on her back and head. The girl’s back and leg were both
healed. This is why Ahmed er Rifa’i is called Beynennas (Ebu’l Arca), the Father of the Lame.
One Friday, Hz. Rifa’i was sleeping and woke to find that it was time for prayer. However, there
was a cat asleep on his robe. He asked his wife for some scissors, cut off the part of his robe where the cat
lay, stood up and went to prayers. When he returned, the cat had awakened and left, so he asked his wife
for thread to sew the robe back together. When he saw his wife’s displeasure at what he had done to his
robe, he said, “Do not worry, nothing but goodness happened and I did not suffer because of this; this was a
good thing.”
Once, Ahmed er Rifa’i spent forty days caring for a dog with leprosy in the wilderness. When he
returned and was asked why he had spent so much time caring for an unclean beast, he replied, “When I die
and meet my Maker, what would I have said if He asked me why I hadn’t helped one of His creatures?”
The Rifa’i tariqa has 13 sections. The most important are the Heririye, the Keyyaliye, the Aziziye,
and the Ahiyye.
Ahmed er Rifa’i wrote three books:
1. 40 Hadiths
2. El Hikemü’r-Rifa’iye
3. En-Nizamü’l-has
