Ahmed er Rifa’i possessed many virtuous personality traits. He would always forgive bad deeds, feed the
hungry, dress the naked, visit sick people, and go to all the prayers for the dead. He would sit with poor
people, and he didn’t look down on the poor. Hz. Pir often stayed and talked with the poor. He was patient
with pain. He gave good advice to his enemy and greeted them when he met them. He cleaned the mosque
with his own hands. If people were sad, Hz. Rifa’i would also be sad. If people were happy, he would be
happy. When he talked to young or to old people, he would speak with humility and respect. He would not
laugh aloud, but he smiled easily. When he walked on the road, he kept his eyes down. (It is fardz: to lower
one’s gaze, to just look in front of you.) He didn’t look to the right or the left, but would just look straight
ahead, unconcerned with what other people were doing. Hz. Rifa’i would send food to poor people’s
houses and take care of sick people. He also treated orphans as if he were their father. At the end of every
Salat, he would repeat Ayat al-Kursi. When he was walking on the road, he would always recite the Fatiha.
He always had wud’u. If Hz. Pir’s murids had needs, he would take care of them. He drank water in three
sips, and wore a patched robe out of humility.
32 Fardz (obligations) of a Muslim
Sharia
Sharia is what the Prophet (a.s.) said to do or not do. Allah, in the Quran-i-Kerim, gave 32 Fardz as part of
the sharia. These 32 Fardz are ibada (prayers, conditions, cleanliness and such). What the Prophet (a.s.)
performed, did or said is called Sunnah. When learning the Fardz or Sharia you should not make that the
focus though. Allah should be the focus at all times. You should learn the Fardz, but don’t make it your
goal, make Allah your goal. Scholars say there are 6000 Fardz; we are only concerned with the following
Fardz. Tariqa (the path) is the fresh connection, live and present from Allah via the Shaykh. We do not
need to be concerned about what the scholars say happened 1500 years ago. Know this Sharia well, because
if there is no Sharia there is no Tariqa.
I. Conditions of Iman (Belief)- This comes from the last two Ayats (285 & 286) of Baqara (The Cow)
in the Quran.
1. To believe in the Oneness of Allah. La illaha illallah – nothing is worth your worship but
Allah. ‘Illa’ means to worship to - and Allah is the name of the creator. He called Himself that
in the Quran. The word Allah existed before Muhammed (a.s.), before the Quran.
2. To believe in His Angels (malik). The first creation of Allah was Muhammed’s (a.s.) Nur
(light) and the Angels are created from the light of Allah. They are given power from Allah to
do their work. Malik means power to do. Allah has many kinds of angels. His archangels are:
Jibril (a.s.), Mikhail (a.s.), Israfil (a.s.), Azrail (a.s.). Their form comes from the light
characterized by the alam-i-jabbarut. Other angels come from the alam-i-malakut and alam-i-
ma
3. To believe in the Books Allah sent. The four books are the Torah, Psalms (David), the
Gospel (Isa or Jesus) and the Quran (Muhammed, a.s.). These books need to be read.
4. To believe in the Prophets Allah sent.
5. To believe in the Judgment Day (Resurrection). Allah will punish the
guilty and reward the good.
6. To believe that "goodness" and "misfortune" come from Allah.
Bad comes from us and good comes from Allah. But if a misfortune befalls you through
somebody doing something wrong and you are hurt, that person becomes responsible for you.
Allah’s responsibility is that He gives permission for that person to hurt you; this is a burden
on you because Allah wants you to take it. Natural disasters (i.e. famine, earthquake) come
directly from Allah. Allah has His goodness that He has given to everybody and
some friction He gives to everybody. Everybody gets his or her share. Remember this is
planet earth (in Arabic ardz) and here good and evil are mixed. Allah’s Jalil (power) and
Jamal (beauty) are here and you will learn Allah both ways. Those not learning Allah’s rights
and wrongs will learn Allah’s Jalil in Hell and those who do learn Allah’s rights and wrongs
and abide will get Jamal after the Judgment Day.
