II. Conditions or Pillars of Islam
1. To say the words of witnessing (Shahada): "Ashahadu ana la illaha illallah. Ashahadu ana
Muhammedin abduhu wa Rassulullah.” (I witness that there is no one worth worshipping but
Allah. And Muhammed (a.s.) is Allah’s servant and messenger.”
2. To pray five times a day.
3. To fast in the month of Ramadan.
4. If rich, to pay the poor tax (2.5% of extra money or goods). (zakat)
5. To make hajj (pilgrimage) if you can afford it at least once in a lifetime
(and if you have the courage and not claustrophobic and not afraid of being trampled). It is a
blessed place and is a good experience, just be aware of the situation.
III. Wudu (Ablutions) This is done before prayer and what Allah requires. Skin that is exposed to the
sun’s radiation should be washed often. It is better for you. In the desert they walked in the sand, so they
washed their feet too. This is basic hygiene from Allah.
1. To wash hands once up to the elbows.
2. To wash the face once.
3. To wipe with your wet hands 1/4 of the front part of your head. We wipe the head because
we are going to do prostration and Allah wants it clean. Also our hair has static electricity and
pollens. (A sweet little story is that when Adam (a.s.) ate the apple, he smacked his forehead
with his hand and said, “Oh my God, what did I do?” So, cleaning the forehead is wiping that
dirt away.)
4. To wash your feet, including heels and ankles. Clean your feet, you are in
your house or a mosque, so be clean.
IV. Ghusl (Shower) This is required after you have intercourse or your genital
area is dirty or after physical activity. Secretions that come from your body produce germs.
1. To take plenty of water in your mouth and gargle.
2. To take water in your nose and clean it.
3. To wash all your body (not even leaving a place as small as a pinhead dry).
When you are about to perform these acts, (prayer, wudu, ghusl) in your heart make intention, “I intend to
perform wudu, etc.”
V. Teyemmum (to clean yourself without water for salat)
1. To make the intention to make teyemmum for Allah’s sake (wudu or ghusl when there is not
any available water).
2. Lightly hit your hands on clean dirt (such as a wall or the sand) then wipe your face and
hands up to the wrist (for wudu).
Basically this is ‘symbolic wudu’ executed when you are traveling or in a situation where there
isn’t any water or the water is unusable. For example, like when you are in a plane and you want to pray
but you cannot get to the water, or the water is dirty and it would be unhealthy to wash with it, or the water
is freezing cold, or you are at work - then tap your hands on a clean surface and wipe your hands and arms
up to your elbows and then your face.
VI. Salat (Formal Prayer)
Outer: Preparation of Salat
1. To take Wudu (washing yourself for this purpose, see above)
2. To have clean clothes & environment, free from animal refuse & garbage.
3. To cover the parts of the body that Allah has ordered (QRT Sufi men & women are to have only face, hands and feet showing).
Inner:
1. To start the prayer with “Allahu Akbar”.
2. To stand (qiam).
3. To recite Quran.
4. To put hands on knees and bow (ruku).
5. To prostrate (sejda).
6. To sit at the end of the prayer long enough to send blessings to the Prophet (a.s.) and make personal prayers (du’a). When performing du’a don’t close your eyes and don’t look up.
