Outer: Preparation of Salat (continued)
4. To turn towards the Qible (towards Mecca) when praying. (cont. on page 17)
5. To pray on time
6. To make intention (niyat) according to the time of prayer (example, “I intend to pray the noon prayer”).
This intention does not have to be verbal.
This is the minimum that Allah has requested to perform salat. Allah did not make a lot of rules
and regulations to follow, for instance like looking only in front of your toes when bowing or looking at
your heart when standing up or placing your head a certain way when making sejda. Allah left these
decisions for the Prophet (a.s.) and the other people. The reason for this is because Allah does not want to
hinder you to a certain form. Allah wants you to do what comes from your heart - that is unique to you.
Always keep your attention on Allah in your heart, make rabita to Allah. You are praying to Allah, by
Allah, with Allah, for Allah. Remember, though, when you are praying with an Imam, even if you are shi’a
and he is sunni, no matter the differences, you have to do what the Imam does.
If you miss a prayer making it up is not a fardz, but it is a good thing to do. Abdul Qadir Geylani
and our pirs say to make it up. To make up a prayer you can make it up at the same time that you missed
one, for example if you missed the morning prayer, then on another morning you can say salat twice, or
after Isha prayer you can make up any prayers that you missed.
Also, when you are traveling Allah says that you can shorten your prayers; He is not saying that
you have to shorten the prayers. Some people shorten their prayers then pray Sunnah or extra prayers. If
you are going to pray extra prayers then there isn’t a reason to shorten the fardz prayer. But Allah leaves
this up to you. Do something from your heart and make a judgment according to the situation, this way the
religion can be flexible according to the time.
Also, the Prophet (a.s.) said that while praying don’t close your eyes, like other people do, and
don’t lift your head and look up. This gives the impression that you are thinking that Allah is up or outside
of your heart.
Levels of Nafs
Tariqa
By Shaykh Muhyiddin Ansari
There are seven pardahs (hijab, barriers, veils) between Allah and his bondsmen. Four of them are Hijab-i
Zulmani, or veils of darkness, two of them are Hijab-i Nurani, or veils of light, and one is the veil of Miraj
(night travel to Allah). All Muslims are in the first level (or pardah). They are the sailors of Islam.
The seven veils or partitions are the seven nafs. They are:
1. Nafs-i-Ammara
2. Nafs-i-Lawwama
3. Nafs-i-Mulhama
4. Nafs-i-Mutmaina (these first four are the veils or partitions of darkness)
5. Nafs-i-Radhiyyeh
6. Nafs-i-Mardhiyeh (these are the veils or partitions of light)
7. Nafs-i-Sufiyyeh, (the veil or partition of Miraj)
Nafs-i-Ammara (first level)
Maqam: Stinginess, ignorance, passion, pride, jealousy, anger or cruelty, enmity, lust and lowly manners
like them.
Key: La ilaha illallah
Seyri: (path it takes): lillahi-i-ta’ala (to the path of Haqq)
