Alem (world): Alim’ul Mulk (the world of form, physical manifestation).
Mahal (place): Sadr (chest)
Warid (path of study): Shariat
Situation: Inclination
Nur (light): sky blue
Day: Saturday
Muekkil (client): fard
Ayat (verse): Nafsal ammarata bissu’i
Prophet: Adam (a.s.)
In this maqam the salik (student) with the order of command of his Shaykh says the zikr of “la
ilaha illallah” increasingly until he sees sky blue in his dream or vision. After this his road is opened and he
goes to the second level.
Dreams of this level which show that you are under the influence of Nafs Ammara: If one sees a
pig, it means haram (unlawful, forbidden things). Seeing a dog means wrath or anger. Seeing a snake,
elephant, or scorpion indicates sins by words such as backbiting, slander, swearing, etc. Seeing a mouse
means doing something hidden from public view but known to Haqq. Seeing a hornet means that one is
starting some work that serves no purpose or has no use. Seeing dump yards or houses means the nafs has a
tendency toward worldly things. Seeing opium, hashish or liquor bars means that one is serving corrupt
doubtful ideas and drinking liquor. Seeing muddy floodwater and similar things means your nafs are under
the influence of air (desires).
Nafs-i-Lawama (second level)
Key: Ya Allah
Indications: Hawas (desires), makr (cheating, tricks), conceitedness, kahr (overpowering), lawm (blame,
reproach), gaybah (backbiting), riya (lies), kizip (speaking falsely), and other qualities similar to these.
Seyri: (path it takes): Lillahi Ta’ala (to the path of Haqq)
Alem (world): Alem Melekut (the world of the angels)
Mahal (place): Qalb (heart)
Warid (path of study): Tariqat
Nur (light): red
Day: Sunday
Muekkil (client): Nuqaba (elders, especially the 12 chiefs of Muhammed (a.s.) in Medina)
Ayat (verse): 75:2 Al-Qiyahah: “Wa la uksimu bi nafs” (I call to witness the accusing voice of man’s own
nafs)
Maqam: Lawama
Level: the light of aql (understanding)
Planet: Utarid (Mercury; the essence of Utarid exists in the qalb [heart])
Prophet is Nuh (Noah) (a.s.): Nuh means ruh (spirit), which invites the vessel of the nafs to Haqq. The
vessel (as in the story of Noah) is like a ship/ark. The ship represents the body of humanity. Ruh is saved
along with its ship (or container) and it reaches Haqq. The ocean on which the ship sails represents the
attribute of jalal that destroys the ones who don’t obey or climb aboard the ship of the nafs. The sea
represents Allah’s Jalal.
In this level, the salik continues to make zikr using the honorable name “Ya Allah” until he sees
red in his dream or when he closes his eyes. He then passes to the third maqam. In this maqam the student’s
love should be “la maqsudi illallah” (No goal but Allah). The student shouldn’t have any other love in his
heart except for Allah. He should be connected to the high horizon. Here the secret of “Kataba fi
qulubihum-ul-iman” manifests itself. Its place is the core of iman (belief) 53:22 “[As for the true Sabians] it
is they in whose hearts He has inscribed faith.”
Dreams: If you see any of the following: sheep, cow, horse, camel, fish, pigeon, dove, geese,
chicken, honeybee or any edible fruit, these are a form of Nafs-i-lawama. If you see any of the following:
unburned candles, palaces, houses, clothing, buildings, ships, or pastry, soft drinks, honey and such, these
are qualities of nafs-i-lawama. These qualities or attributes manifest a variety of colors in human beings. To
pass this level one needs to continue “Ya Allah” with perseverance and patience.
Interpretations: Halal or lawful sheep and young cows mean usefulness for people. A camel means the
person is able to carry a great load. A fish indicates earning lawfully. Seeing things of the above nature
means a desiring of various kinds of provisions. If one sees a pigeon it means purity in your animal life.
