Flying birds mean acquiring the attributes of various manners. If one sees a bee it indicates attaining better
manners. If you see cooked food it is the symbol of your nature. If you see unripe fruit it means you have
behaved immaturely. If you see ripened fruit it means your behavior is mature or you are in the process of
maturing. If you see a market, bazaar, malls, etc., it means your nafs are buying and selling and all you’re
getting is the interest.
Nafs-i-Mulhama (third level)
Maqam: Three
Key: “Ya Hu”
Qualities: sehave (generosity), Kana’a (to be content), ilm (knowledge), hilm (softness), tevaa’zu
(humility/modesty), jud (liberality), tawakkul (to make Allah a trustee, to surrender, to make Allah your
wakil, to leave it up to Allah), tenezzul (to lower yourself), ibada (worship, prayer), shukr (thankfulness),
riza (to be happy and in harmony with Allah’s decisions), and high attributes like these. While the student
is obtaining these attributes, his nafs have not yet reached the state of fana (being nothing) yet.
Day: Monday
Place: Ruh / Prophet: Idris
Nur: Yellow (different ways to see the color: close eyes – at third eye what color do you see, or what color
is in your dreams (if you don’t see colors, don’t panic))
The student continues the zikr “Ya Hu” until the color yellow is manifested. The secret that will be
manifested is Allah, when it is manifested the student passes to the fourth level (maqam).
Dreams and manifestations: woman, unbeliever, uncovered head, half-shaved beard, lame or
crippled person, mute, deaf, black, bald, drunkard, tobacco, hashish, robber, comedian, butcher, cross-eyed
person, monkey owner, fisherman. If you see any of these in your dream, it means you must pass these
qualities before you can pass to the next level.
Interpretations: Seeing a woman means short thinking (it is forbidden for women to pray when
they are menstruating, that is why their thing is incomplete – that symbolizes short thinking), an unbeliever
means incomplete religion. A shaved head or partly shaved head means incomplete Shariat. An uncovered
head means an incomplete school of religion. Lame means holding the truth, deaf means avoiding Allah’s
commands, crippled means hearing or listening to things concerning worship but avoiding them. Mute
means keeping quiet when one should be backing or supporting the truth. Black means to shame someone.
A man without a beard means one is avoiding the sunnah. Seeing a drunkard represents one’s selfish
desires. A robber means you are hiding your worship. A magician, acrobat or comedian means quitting
worship (ibada) and starting haram (forbidden) things. A butcher means watching illegal things or sinning
with your eyes. Cross-eyed means leaving the straight path and going down a false path.
In order to get rid of any of the qualities described above, one should continue to zikr “Ya Hu”.
Nafs-i-Mutmaina (fourth level)
Maqam: Fourth
The Key: Ya Haqq
Qualities: Karim (dignity), zuhd (abstinence), ibada (worship), ikhlas (sincerity), courageous, loyalty, and
similar attributes.
Place: Sir (place in the heart -secret)
Nur: Green
Prophet: Abraham
Day: Tuesday
On this level the Murshid is in the position of Al Khidr and the murid is in the position of Musa
(Moses) (a.s.)
There is a place on Bahrain Island in the Red Sea where Musa and Khidr meet which is used as an
analogy to demonstrate the positions the student goes through in the attainment of this level. The presence
of Yahya (John) means the presence of Ruh (spirit/soul). A confirmed unbeliever means the visualization
of Jalal (majesty). The salik works on this until the required color is manifested. His or her path is Ma
Allah (to be with Allah). After the color is manifested, the salik may proceed to the fifth level with the
permission of his or her Shaykh. Those who pass the fourth level are considered Insan-i-Kamil (mature
human beings).
