Dreams: Reading the Quran, Prophets, sultans, judges, religious leaders, imams, alims, scientists,
scholars, the Ka’aba, Medina, Jerusalem, mosques, tekkes, places of worship, flag, bow and arrows, prayer
beads, etc. If you see these things in your dreams, it means that you are in Nafs-i-Mutmaina and your
Murshid will give you life by inculcation of Ya Haqq. You will have to continue on this name.
Interpretations: Seeing the Quran means purity of heart. Interpretation depends on the sura being
read. Seeing a Prophet shows the strength of Islam (surrender). Seeing kings, rulers, etc., means you are
using yourself for a good cause. If you see Shaykhs, Murshid, etc., it means that divine rules, regulations,
structure are getting through to your heart and soul. An imam, lecturers, scholars, means obedience to
Allah’s commands. Seeing Mecca, Medina, the Ka’aba, Jerusalem, shows the cleanliness of the heart.
Mosques, schools, flags, bows and arrows, guns, indicate a weakening of doubt and fear that is present in
you induced by Shaytan.
Nafs-i-Radhiyyeh (fifth level)
Maqam: Five
The Key: Ya Hayy
Qualities: Halvat (seclusion), tark (leaving and quitting the bad habits/nafs), Lughub (maturity), fikr
(contemplation), do zikr and shukr (give thanks), things that are the property of the Jihab-i-Nurani (veil of
light).
Day: Wednesday
Place: Secret
Nur/color: White
Prophet: Musa (Moses) (a.s.)
Secret: is Fillah (for Allah)
The salik works on the name Ya Hayy increasingly under the command of his Shaykh and after
the manifestation of the color the salik passes to the sixth maqam.
The sixth maqam is the circle of the loved one. You enter into this level with love, courage,
bravery, and perseverance.
Dreams and Interpretations: They are produced proclaiming the return. Seeing Vildan, houris, angels and
paradise shows the maturity of aql (understanding). A rose, or a road, means a personal destination and
path. At this level nearness to Allah is attained. This level means staying among the slaves of Allah. Allah
is happy with them. These people have earned Allah’s good will. To be able to see things happening in the
circle you need studying and education and practice and you need to be pleased with your Murshid. You
must follow your Murshid with a loyal, pure, and sincere heart.
Nafs-i-Mardhiyeh (sixth level)
Maqam: Six (Qutb maqam)
The Key: Ya Qayyum
Qualities: Good nature, knowledge, appreciation tafakkur (contemplation) and similar things.
Saayr: Anillah-i ta’ala
World: Alem-i shahadot (the one that you see) and Hayolet (world of illusion)
Nur: Black
Day: Thursday
Place: al-Khafi (hidden)
Warid: as-Sharif
Prophet: Isa (Jesus) (a.s.)
Situation: Hal, Baka billah, be forever with Allah – (kinetic energy is forever – potential energy (form) it
will cease to exist) bring consciousness to Allah to be kept forever.
Muekkil: al-Awtad: cunud: 1. Ilm’el Yaqin 2. Ayn’al Yaqin 3. Haqq’al Yaqin
Ayat: “Irji’i ila rabbiki radiyatan mardiya” 89:28 (Return unto thy Lord, content in His good Pleasure!)
Maqams: “Fa-dhkuli fi’ibadi na-dkuli jannati” 89:29-30 (Enter thou among My bondmen! Enter thou
My Garden!)
Star: Venus, the substance of Venus is also present in Nafs Mardziyah
Dreams: The seven layers of heaven, which means Nur of Wahdah or lights of unity. If you see stars, the
lights of nafs, if you see the moon, it is the light of aql (intellect). In this level of Marduja one has to appeal
to his/her murshid whole-heartedly by outer language and from the heart and the murshid has to direct his
