1. Muhabbest (found the tariqa, attracted, but not entered the path) – is like an air current or breeze
2. Murid (gained understanding of what Sufism, you took biat, you surrendered your will power to
Allah through the Shaykh) – is like fire
3. Sufi (you are like the Sufis with the Prophet (pbuh) who are studying Sufism) – is like water
4. Dervish – is like earth. When there is no air the fire will not burn. When fire isn’t put out water
will not run. When water is not evaporated food will not cook, and plants will not grow. Without
these four essentials nothing will happen, no life.
5. Awliya (plural of waliy) means protecting friends, sages, or saints. Awliya have four qualities:
they are like the wind, like the sunlight, like the water, and like the earth. In other words, they are
humble and cool; they comfort the creation as a breeze. They give life to the world as water does,
and finally they are like a dervish with a heart like earth: modest.
6. Irshad – (or enlightening) guide people to Haqq, the True or Real. They teach them or let them
know the Shariat and Tariqat that leads to Allah. Wind, breeze, or air is Shariat, fire is Tariqat,
water is Marifet, and earth is Haqqiqat.
7. Fana’fillah means to stop or leave actions or practices such as selfishness, conceitedness, self-
centeredness, pride, cruelty, jealousy, stinginess, and all similar bad actions as well as eating,
putting on, listening to, or looking at unlawful things.
8. Baka’billah refers to the experience or knowing of Paradise, the Hereafter, Hell, Mizan
(balance/judgment), as well as acquiring the understanding and qualities of questioning,
answering, practice, punishment, ilm* as well as contact with Houris, Gilman and Vildan (servants
in Paradise). Shafa’ah Rasul Allah (intercession of the Messenger), didar and Haqq.
9. Sayri’fillah: Journey for Allah, means that everything other than Haqq has been removed from his
heart. Those at this level ignore and leave behind the actions of all creatures and listen only to the
word of Allah. They say words that come from the spirit of the Wali of Allah and turn their eyes
towards Haqq. To take everything other than Allah (masiva) out of your heart. To quit
concentrating or focusing on all the creation and turn your eyes toward Allah. To listen to the
words of Allah and to say the words of the walis of Allah. Only does what will please Allah.
10. Seyri Maallah: Travel with Allah. Allah’s help, unity, gaze, and presence, all His perfection
never leaves the mentioned person’s nafs, mind and soul not even for a moment, an hour, any day
or night. Allah is with you in your journey.
11. Tecellayi-sirr: Secrets of creation. At the beginning of souls, the All High, the True, ordered your
soul and sent you from the high world to the lowest of the low world, from everlasting world
(Alem-i Baka) to perishable world, ending world (Alem-i fana). And He said to you, “Don’t forget
me, I am your loved one. I am your Goal. I am the One who formed your form with the hand of
Power. Understand My Secret. Don’t be unaware. Don’t forget My Secret and be deceived. Don’t
go to other doors than Mine, don’t give your heart to others than Me, because you will turn around
and come to My dergah.” This is fana upon fana. This is Tecallayi-sirr. A person, a human being,
cannot be insan-i kamil (a mature human being) until he or she gets into this maqam.
12. Tecellayi-sirr-i sirr: Secret of Secret of Creation. It is to give up your body, to surrender your
nafs to its origin, to Allah in your soul through your heart. It is to dissolve your own presence in
the presence of Allah and to bring outer (zahiri) and inner (batini) together and to get out of the
way, so that only everlasting (baki) Allah can be left.
