The Crown of Prophet Muhammed
Peace Be Upon Him
By Shaykh Muhyiddin Ansari
1. The writings on the taj (head/crown) sent for our Honor of the Universe, Muhammed (a.s.)
At the Top:
Kavliu ittaallah kulli shay’in khalifun illa wa shae (shaykh could not translate)
In the middle:
La ilaha illallah (There is nothing to worship other than Allah)
Inside:
Yasin wal kurun’il Azim (Hakim)
Outside:
La ilaha illallah
Muhammed’er Rasulullah
Ali Veliyullah
Fe Eyname tuwallu wa semme wechullah (Allah’s face is wherever you
turn)
In the back:
Ademe Esmea (taught Adam the names)
2. Hirka – Our Coat (Cloak) in general for Sufis
The purpose and the meaning are two.
1. Outer Meaning: It helps the person to be remembered and distinguished.
2. Inner Meaning: (batin) meaning:
The color means retreat
The skirt part means service
Its sunnah is to wear/attain it by the hands of one’s Murshid-i-Kamil
Its Fardz (obligatory) is to speak the truth and to follow the true
(correct) path.
Its iman (belief) is to get rid of pride and be humble and heart making (don’t break hearts, heal
the heart).
3. The Honorable Hirka of our Prophet (a.s.)
The writing on his Hirka is:
1. On the collar: Ya Sabur (patient), Ya Shakur (grateful) and Ya Karim (rich)
2. On the skirt: Ya Wahid (one), Ya Ahad (whole), Ya Ferd (individual), Ya
Samad (source)
4. Post (your lambskin) – everyone should have a skin (general knowledge for any Post)
1. The head of the skin is surrender
2. The feet are service, “mesaiye ademul fukora,” (work for or be the servant of the faqr, the
poor – the one who knows that everything belongs to Allah and not to him)
3. The right side is retreat
4. The left side is to hold hands (to give a hand to the needy)
5. Condition: Each time you sit on it, to sit giving respect and plead to Allah
6. The center is Love
7. Its mihrab is the hearts of the Pirs
8. Its Takbir-i Shariat is to drop the neck outside
9. Its Takbir-i Tariqat is to drop the neck inside
10. Its Haqqiqat is to sit down
11. Its Marifet is to know what it stands for
5. The Post (lambskin) of our Messenger (a.s.) – this is for reference to know that everything has
these prayers, and always keep your eyes on Allah
1. The skin (Post) of our Prophet (a.s.) has a word written on and an angel assigned to each leg.
