2. Right front leg: Ahsentu ileyke ya Ali. It represents North. The angel’s name is Abdullah
Samad. He deals with Shariat
3. Left front leg: Ahsentu ileyke ya Ali. It represents South. The angel’s name is Abdur Rahman
and he deals with Tariqat.
4. Right back leg: Ahsentu ileyke ya Ali. It represents East. The angel’s name is Abdul Majid.
He deals with Haqqiqat.
5. Left back leg: Edrikni ileyke ya Ali. It represents West. The name of the angel is Abdul
Jabbar. He deals with Marifet.
All power belongs to Allah, not to Ali, not to anyone. Allah has assigned Ali as the Walliullah. Ali is the
head of all Walis. He is the representative and keeper of the knowledge. Our Prophet (pbuh) said, if I am
the building of knowledge, Ali is the door. He didn’t make Ali the door, Allah made Ali the door. Color of
the Post is black and white. White for Qadiri and black for Rifi’a. Now they even dye the post, do as you
wish. Put down Post as said in the Khalifa Manual.
UNDERSTANDING PERSONAL AND GROUP ZIKR
BY SHAYKH TANER
“These hearts are subject to corrosion; to polish them, one should regularly read the Quran, remember
death and join the circles of zikr.”—From the Prophet (a.s.)
Zikr means remembrance of Allah. The Quran tells us to practice zikr in order to expand our
aliveness, increase our spiritual attunement and find rest for our hearts. In doing so, we invoke the
immediate experience of divine attributes, specifically activating the energies of compassion and mercy and
drawing blessings from the angelic realm.
Zikr offers us the opportunity to express and reinforce our conscious alignment with the reality
that Allah is our creator and that our position in the natural order is that of the created, and that we are
dependent upon Allah’s mercy for our very existence.
Finally zikr creates in us the habit of remembrance. Habit is the language of the physical body,
which is like a child that takes comfort in repetition. Zikr allows us to establish in our bodies a habit that
nourishes our heart at a deep level.
In the Quran-i-Kerim it is written that Allah is the light of the heavens and the earth. Some people
who interpret the Quran say that this ayat (verse) is talking about electricity and that Allah is describing the
bulb and the filament of the electric bulb, and how it glows. But as Sufis we say that Allah is referring to a
greater light. This is the light that is found in the houses where Allah gave permission to do His zikr.
When we do zikr, it is important for us to understand that we are not the ones actually doing it. It
is Allah who lets us do it. Zikr is a great favor given to us from Allah so that we can learn. As Sufis we
must be mindful that it is always Allah who does everything. Yet Allah is the one essential element in
every action that most people overlook. When we overlook the presence of Allah in every action, we begin
to think that all the power belongs to us. When we forget Allah, then we make mistakes. Allah is not
hidden. Allah is very apparent. The greatest miracle is that although Allah is apparent, nobody can see
Allah.
We take Allah for granted, even when we think we are doing good deeds (even this is not
permitted). Don’t think that you are doing anything. Allah is letting you do this. Coming together to make
zikr is Allah’s grace. We are all together here, but it is only through Allah’s grace that we are here. It is
Allah’s favor upon you that we are here talking about Allah.
Allah taught Abu Bakr with the heart so they do silent zikr, khafi zikr. In the Quran it is said that
they were leaving Mecca and going to Medina and they hid in a cave. Abu Bakr was afraid they were going
to be caught by the enemies and Allah sent the angels to give this ayat; Tell your comrades to put his
tongue on top of his mouth and then say Allah silently. That is why the Naqshis from Abu Bakr do zikr
