like that. To Ali He taught from the mouth, outer, so we do jahri zikr. Everything is with zikr and with
Allah and surrender.
ON THE NECESSITY OF ZIKR
Zikr (also written as dhikr) is the remembrance of Allah with the tongue and heart. Through zikr
we polish the heart so that we may reflect Allah’s Nur (light). Some have suggested that the practice of
zikr is an innovation of the Sufis in later times, but we find Allah’s instructions to practice zikr in the Holy
Quran:
“Who have believed and whose hearts have rest in the remembrance of Allah. Verily in the
remembrance of Allah do hearts find rest.” (13:28)
“Recite that which hath been inspired in thee of the Scripture, and establish worship. Lo!
Worship preserveth from lewdness and iniquity, but verily remembrance of Allah is more
important/greater. And Allah knoweth what ye do.” (29:45)
“O ye who believe! Remember Allah with much remembrance.” (33:41)
PERFORM ZIKR REGULARLY
We also see from Hadith that it was the practice of the Prophet (a.s.) to perform zikr on a regular
basis.
Narrated by Abu Ma’bad (the freed slave of Ibn ‘Abbas): Ibn ‘Abbas told me, “In the lifetime of
the Prophet it was the custom to celebrate Allah’s praises aloud after the compulsory congregational
prayers.” Ibn ‘Abbas further said, “When I heard the zikr, I would learn that the compulsory congregational
prayer had ended.”
It is through zikr that we come closer to Allah: “Remember me, I shall remember you.” (2:152) In
a Hadith Qudsi, the Prophet (a.s.) narrated: “Allah says, ‘I am to My servant as he expects of Me, I am with
him when he remembers Me. If he remembers Me in his heart, I remember him to Myself, and if he
remembers Me in an assembly, I mention him in an assembly better than his, and if he draws nearer to Me a
hand’s span, I draw nearer to him an arm’s length, and if he draws nearer to Me an arm’s length, I draw
nearer to him a fathom length, and if he comes to Me walking, I rush to him at (great) speed.’” (Sources:
Sahih Bukhari and Sahih Muslim)
Allah has drawn close to Him those who remember Him. The Prophet (a.s.) said, “The devotees
have surpassed all.” They asked, “Who are these exceptional people (Mufarridun), O Prophet of Allah?”
He replied, “Those men and women who remember Allah unceasingly.” (Source: Sahih Muslim) These are
the people who are really alive. Abu Musa reported, “The likeness of the one who remembers his Lord and
the one who does not remember Him is like that of a living to a dead person.” (Source: Sahih Bukhari)
TRANSFORM NAFS THROUGH ZIKR
Remembrance of Allah is the foundation for transforming the nafs (ego). Whoever succeeds in it
is blessed with the close friendship of Allah. That is why the Prophet (a.s.) used to make remembrance of
Allah at all times. When a man complained, “The laws of Islam are too heavy for me, so tell me something
that I can easily follow,” the Prophet (a.s.) told him, “Let your tongue be always busy with the
remembrance of Allah.” The Prophet (a.s.) would often tell his Companions, “Shall I tell you about the
best of deeds, the most pure in the sight of your Lord, about the one that is of the highest order and is far
better for you than spending gold and silver, even better for you than meeting your enemies in the
battlefield where you strike at their necks and they at yours?” The Companions replied, “Yes, O
Messenger of Allah!” The Prophet (a.s.) said, “Remembrance of Allah.” (Reported by Tirmidhi, Ahmad,
and Al-Hakim, who considers reliable its chain of narrators.)
ZIKR CIRCLES
Joining the assemblies or circles of zikr is a commendable practice as shown by the following
Hadith: Ibn ‘Umar reported, “The Prophet (a.s.) said, ‘When you pass by a garden of Paradise, avail
yourselves of it.’ The Companions asked, ‘What are the gardens of Paradise, O Messenger of Allah?’ The
Prophet (a.s.) replied, ‘The assemblies or circles of zikr. There are some angels of Allah who go about
looking for such assemblies of zikr, and when they find them, they surround them.’”
