THE BODY OF GROUP ZIKR
DESTUR (PERMISSION)
After the opening we ask for permission again.
LA ILAHA ILLA ‘LLAH (THERE IS NOTHING WORTHY OF WORSHIP BUT ALLAH)
As we repeat La ilaha illa ‘llah one movement is to sway from side to side, turning the head to the
right and to the left. This comes from Yunus Emre, the Sufi poet, among other sources. We say, La
ilaha…” while turning the head to the right, which represents the nafs, our body and the material world.
We are saying that it is not Allah. We say, “…illa ‘llah” while turning the head to the left, toward our
heart, which is where Allah’s Essence lives in us. Appearance is not Allah, the Essence is Allah.
Another way we move to La ilaha illa’ llah is forward to the right, back to center, then forward left
and back to center. This repetition represents the wheat field submitting to the wind, among other things.
We always come back to the center so as to say that everything ends in us. Allah, of course, is everywhere,
but we don’t need to look outside to find Him. We can find Him within us.
ALLAH, ALLAH
One movement is of the head from right to left with a quick breath between each Allah. This
becomes like a sawing sound. It is based on the story of the Prophet Zechariah, who while being pursued
cried to a tree to conceal him. The tree opened up and he entered, but his pursuers soon discovered him.
As they began to saw down the center of the tree, Zechariah realized his mistake; he should have called
upon Allah to save him, not the tree. So as the saw came closer and closer, he repeated over and over,
“Allah, Allah, Allah.” Our repeating Allah in zikr reminds us to seek refuge only in Allah. The focus is
always the heart, where Allah is. This doesn’t mean that Allah isn’t anywhere else, but this is your maqam, your
connection. This is where your connection is zat to zat.
ALLAH HU, HU ALLAH
We move the torso in a circular fashion. This represents the angels moving in a circle around
Allah’s Throne (Arsh).
The following is done while standing.
ALLAH, ALLAH HAQQ (HAQQ MEANS TRUTH/REALITY)
We bend at the waist and move the torso to the right and back to the center, then to the left and to
the center. This is similar to the previous motion which connotes the wheat field.
YA HAYY (LIVING)
At this time we may join hands in the circle. This is to reinforce unity in Allah. Actually, it is
traditional during the sitting portion to lock arms. We haven’t done that yet because Americans like to
have room; it is more comfortable for them. But with everyone locked arm in arm, men and women
separately, this really builds brotherhood. Everyone’s energy level rises with the group. If there is love in
someone’s heart, you get the benefit of that love. There is more power in moving together. We may also
repeat Hayy standing as we bend our knees and straighten up with each repetition. Our arms are bent at the
elbow in front of us and we move them up and down in time with the movements of our legs.
ALLAH HAYY, YA QAYUM (ALLAH EVER-LIVING, THE SELF-EXISTING ONE)
We turn the whole body with feet planted firmly. At Allah Hayy…we turn to the right, placing
left hand on the heart and at …Ya Qayyum turn to the left, placing right hand on the heart. In every
direction is Allah. In all of these movements we are trying to develop a body language. What we want to
do is make zikr with body, heart, soul, and mind. Each time you do zikr you should do it with all your
being.
YA WADUD, YA SALAAM (O LOVING ONE, O PEACE)
We turn to the left, moving in a slow circle, right arm extended with palm up and left arm
downward with palm down. This time we are activating Allah’s love and peace in the universe. In this
world love and peace are not usually together. The only time when love and peace are together is when nafs
