is not around. When there is love, there is fire, frustration, disappointment, and expectation. Only in
Divine Love is peace and love together. This is what we are trying to attract, with Allah’s permission, to
the universe.
HU (YOU, REFERRING TO ALLAH, IN ARABIC, 3RD
PERSON SINGULAR, NOT MALE OR FEMALE)
After such an active zikr people get tired, and with Hu we relax. At the same time, Hu sums
everything up. At this time we also sing a song that sends salaams (blessings) to all the members of our
silsillah (Our Pirs, the Lineage). At this time the Shaykh goes into the center of the circle, turns, and talks
to the Prophet (pbuh). We send salaams to him and to the whole universe. We sing his salawat in all
directions. Then we end zikr.
THE CLOSING
After zikr we make du’a (personal prayer). In this we also follow the example of the Prophet,
peace be upon him. Allah asked him what he wanted. He asked Allah to forgive his people. Then Allah
asked him what he wanted for himself. He asked that Allah not dismiss him from His service. Allah wants
us to make du’a because He wants to give us something. By making du’a we are also confirming that Allah
is Lord and we are not. In this way we return to being His bondsman. Allah said, “Irji,” which means,
“Return.” We make the trip to Allah during zikr, and then He wants us to return to the world. It is Allah’s
desire that we should be in this body, serving Allah in this world of manifestation.
SONGS, TURNING, AND PRAYERS
Some dervishes turn during zikr. Turning did not start with the Mevlevis. Shams was a student
of Abdul Qadir al Geylani. He wore the Qadiri color of green and he turned. From the beginning we
turned.
Prostration is also a part of zikr. Allah said, “Prostrate,” so we prostrate to show respect at various
times throughout the ceremony. There will be people who will come to your zikr and will criticize the fact
that we will prostrate in a circle. They will say that you can only prostrate to the Qible, because that is what
they have been told. So forgive them because they don’t know. We prostrate anywhere we want and we
prostrate to Allah. Allah says He is the Nur and He is in this house, middle of the circle His Nur is there so
we prostrate. We are not prostrating to each other’s image. So either ignore them or kindly escort them
outside.
We say Al Fatiha several times (seven times for seven verses) during zikr. Fatiha means Opening.
We open and close zikr with this sura (verse), and recite it during transitions. Just prior to closing, we
recite the three last suras of Quran. These are like a summary of the whole Quran, and reciting these is
traditional in virtually all religious ceremonies. These suras are a protection for those of us who have done
zikr, against evils of shaytan and evil jinns. Shaytan’s job is to take us away from the path or to stop us
from progressing. So he could be waiting right outside the door to tempt us with doubt or confusion or
fighting.
During group zikr we also sing certain songs (ilahis), which are designed to provide motivation
and rhythm. These songs tell us of our philosophy, of the wisdom of Sufism. For example, one of them
says, “You cannot reach the High Headquarters with vanity. You have to leave what you have and what
you have not. Then, come.”
CONTEMPLATION
Whoever contemplates an affair and seeks its cause finds that each of its parts has many parts of its own,
and finds that each of these is the cause of many other things. This is a contemplation that is worth a year’s
worship.
Whoever contemplates his devotions and seeks the cause and reason and comes to know it, his meditation
is worth seventy years of worship.
Whoever contemplates the divine wisdom with a strong wish to know Allah Most High, his meditation is
worth a thousand years of worship, for this is true knowledge.
From Pir Abdul Qadir al Geylani’s book ‘Secret of Secrets’
