Qadiri Rifa’i Congregational Zikr Script
1. Shaykh sings with everyone - while standing facing
congregation. The Selati Kemaliye:
Allah humma salli wa sellim wa barik-a la seyyidina
Muhammedin wa ala alihi adede ilha milla-hilkerimi wa
ifdalihi. (3 times)
Allah humma salli ve sellim wa barik-a la murshidina
Muhammedin wa ala alihi adede kemalilla-hi wa
kemayeli kubikemalihi.
Allah humma salli wa sellim wa barik-a la shemsidduha
Muhammedin wa ala alihi adede kemalilla-hi wa
kemayeli kubikemalihi.
Allah humma salli wa sellim wa barik-a la bedridduja
Muhammedin wa ala alihi adede kemalilla-hi wa
kemayeli kubikemalihi.
Allah humma salli wa sellim wa barik-a la nurul huda
Muhammedin wa ala alihi adede kemalilla-hi wa
kemayeli kubikemalihi.
Mathari Maucudaqt, Muhammed Mustafa ra:
(Persian) Salawat -
Everyone says: Salawat
Allahumma salli ala Sayyidina Muhammedin wa ala’ aali
Sayyidina Muhammed.
2. Shaykh turns facing Mecca says:
Destur ya Allah. Destur ya Rasulallah. Destur ya Ali
Waliyallah. Destur ya Sahibel Sharia. Destur ya Sahibel
Tariqa. Destur ya Sahibel Haqqiqa. Destur ya Sahibel
Marifa. Destur ya Qutbul Zaman. Destur ya Sahibel
Meydan, al Fatiha
Everyone says: Salawat & Al Fatiha.
(Salawat) Allahumma salli ala Sayyidina Muhammedin
wa ala’ aali Sayyidina Muhammed.
(Fatiha) Bismillah’ir Rahman’ir-Rahim
Al hamdu lillahi, Rabbil alamin
ar-Rahman’ir Rahim,
Maliki-Yawmid-din
Iyyaka na’ budu wa iyaaka nasta’in
Ihdinas siratal mustaqim
1. Everyone Sings
The Most Perfect Blessings
Our God, send honor, peace and blessings on our
leader Muhammed as much as perfection (3 times)
(group standing)
Our God, send honor, peace and blessings on our
enlightener Muhammed and upon his family as much
as his perfections.
Our God, send honor, peace and blessings on the rising
sun at dawn Muhammed and upon his family as much
as his perfections.
Our God, send honor, peace and blessings on the full
moon Muhammed and upon his family as much as his
perfection.
Our God, send honor, peace and blessings on the light
of Allah Muhammed and upon his family as much as
his perfection.
The honor of all creation to Muhammed Mustafa:
Salawat -
Everyone says: (Salawat)
Our God, send honor upon our Leader Muhammed and
upon the family of our Leader Muhammed. (in other
words the whole creation gets blessed)
2. Everyone faces the mihrab (Mecca), feet sealed and
congregation says: Hu
Please grant permission O Allah. Please grant
permission, O Muhammed, O Ali. Please grant
permission, keeper of the Sharia, the Tariqa, the
Haqqiqa, the Marifa. Please grant us permission, the
Qutub of this time. Please grant permission, the keeper
of this place.
Everyone says: (Salawat)
Our God, send honor upon our Leader Muhammed and
upon the family of our Leader Muhammed.
(Fatiha) In the name of Allah, the Compassionate, the
Merciful,
Praise be to Allah, the Lord of the worlds, the
Compassionate, the Merciful
owner of the Day of Judgment
Thee alone do we worship, thee alone do we ask for
help. Guide us on the straight path, the path of those
