siratal ladzhina an’ amta alaihim
Ghairil maghdubi alayhim, wa lad-zaalin. Amin.
Facing congregation Shaykh says: Hadzara Takbir-i
lillah
3. Everyone sings The Takbir three times
Allahü akbar, Allahü akbar, la ilaha illallah-hü wallahü
akbar, Allahü akbar wa lillahil hamd.
4. Everyone sits down. Shaykh says:
Bismillah’ir Rahman’ir Rahim.
Ridza’an Lillâh, Ridza’an Rasülullah, Ridza’an
Piran, Qabul ad Du’a
5. Then sejda, and sit up and face inner circle
6. Everyone sings: (as many times as your heart tells
you)
Bismillah’ir Rahman’ir-Rahim. 20 times
Shaykh says:
Illallah Hatemen Nebiyyine Rasulallah Hakkan wa
sitka.
Ya ayyuhal-ladzhina amanu, tubu ila ’llahi tawbatan
nasuhan.
7. Everyone sings:
Estaughfirallah, tubtu ila ‘llah, wa ’laytu qalbi a ma siwa
‘llah. 15 times
Estaughfirallah (said quickly, 33 times)
(Shaykh says in English): Estaughfirallahul-Azim, al-
Karim, alladzhi la ilaha illa huwal Hayyul Qayyumu,
wa atubu ilaih. (Wa nas-aluhut-tuwbatan wal
hidayatan wal magfiratan lana, innahu Huwat-
Tawwabur-Rahim. Optional)
8. (Shaykh says in English): A’edzhu billahi minash-
shaytan’ir-rajim. Bismillah’ir-Rahman’ir-rahim.
Inna ‘ilaha wal mala’ikatahu yusalluna alan-nabiyyi.
Ya ayyuhal-ladzhina amanu, sallu alaihi wa sallimu
tesliman.
9. Everyone sings: (10 times)
Allah humma salli ala sayyidina Muhammedin wa ala
alihi was-sahbi hi wa sallim.
Shaykh says:
Illallah Hatemen Nebiyyine Rasulallah Hakkan wa sitka.
10. Everyone sejda: (prostrates) Shaykh says the
upon whom You show favor, Not the path of those who
earn your anger, nor of those who go astray. Amen.
Shaykh says: Say Allah’s Takbir
3. Everyone sings: The Great Word:
God is Greater than Great, God is Greater than Great,
God is Greater than Great. There is no God but Allah,
and God is Greater than Great and unto God be praised.
4. Everyone sits:
In the Name of Allah, Compassionate, Merciful. For
the pleasure of God, for the pleasure of the Prophet of
God, for the pleasure of our Pirs, accept our
supplications,
5. Then prostrate, and sit up and face inner circle
6. Everyone sings:
In the name of Allah, the Compassionate, the Merciful
Shaykh says:
The Seal of our Prophets, messenger of Allah, Reality
and Truth.
O you, who believe, turn to Allah with a sincere
repentance.
7. Everyone sings: (In Arabic)
I seek forgiveness from Allah. I turn in repentance to
Allah, and please clear my heart of everything that is
not Allah.
I seek forgiveness from Allah.
Shaykh: I seek forgiveness of Allah, the Mighty, the
Generous, He, other than whom there is no God, the
living, the Eternal. And I turn unto Him. And we seek
returning, guidance, and forgiveness upon us, for truly
he is of the oft returning with mercy.
8. Shaykh says: I seek refuge in Allah from Shaytan
the banished. In the Name of Allah, the
compassionate, the merciful. Truly, Allah and his
angels shower His Prophet with peace and blessings.
O you, who believe, ask for Allah’s blessings and
peace upon Him likewise.
9. Everyone sings: (In Arabic)
O Lord, send honor upon our leader Muhammed and
on his family and companions, and peace.
10. Everyone prostrates: stay down and say HU
