following Gulbenk:
11. Gulbenk (Overture) Letting people know who
gave you permission to do the zikr
Bi Tawwifiqi Allah. Shafaati Rasulallah. Bi ijazati Ali
Waliyallah. Bi ijazati Abdul Qadir Geylani. Bi ijazati
Ahmad er Rifai. Bi ijazati Abdullah Hashimi. Bi
ijazati Muhammed Ansari. Bi ijazati Muhyiddin
Ansari. Bi ijazati Taner Ansari.
Baraka Baraka fil hadra 2xs.
Al Fatiha
Everyone sits up and says Salawat and Fatiha
12. (Optional) Shaykh says: Bedeetu Bismillah wabi
sirri Muhammed Rasulullah wabi sirri Ibrahim
Halilullah wabi sirri Ali Waliyullah wabi sirri Sultan
Seyyid Abdul Qadir Geylani wabi sirri Seyyid Ahmad
er Rifai wabi sirri Sheyhi wa ustazi Sheyen lillah.
13. Shaykh says: Ka’al le men le Hu.
Everyone says Lâ ilâha illâllah. – turn head left then
right
33 times
Shaykh sings: Yüzün Nuru Hûdadir or
Seyreyleyip Yandim or
Bu Akil Fikriyle Mevlam Bulunmaz or
Hakka Asik Olanlar.
Then Say: Lo il-lo a illa-llo 33 times
14. Shaykh says: Illallah Hatemen Nebiyyine
Seyyidina Muhammedin Rasulallah Hakkan wa
sitka.
15. Shaykh says: (Shaykh Taner does this in English)
Allah yadhkuruna an Allaha qiyaman wa qu-udan wa
ala junubihimwa yayfakkuruna fi khalqis-samawati
wal ardh, “Rabbana, ma-khalaqta hadha batilan;
Subhanaka, fa qina \ azabannar.”
16: Everyone says Salawat and Fatiha
Then do sejda and stand up
17. Sirni Ala - Everyone Sings slowly while turning
and swinging arms:
Allah – Allah, Allah, Allah - Oh Allah, Allah, Allah,
Allah 33 times il la la
While Shaykh Sings: Guzel Ashik
Allah
Daglar ile
Dertli Dolap
18. Everyone says: Allah Hu, Hu Allah
circle counter-clockwise
While Shaykh sings: Hor Bakma
11. Opening statement: group says Hu
With the succor of Allah. With the intercession of the
Prophet. By permission of Ali, Wali of Allah, Abdul
Qadir Geylani, Ahmad er Rifa’i, Abdullah Hashimi,
Muhammed Ansari, Muhyiddin Ansari, Nureddin Ozal,
Taner Ansari.
Al Fatiha
Everyone sits up and says Salawat and Fatiha
12. (optional) First of all Bismillah and with the secret
of Muhammedan Rasulullah and with the secret of
Abraham the friend of God and with the secret of Ali
the protecting friend of God and with the secret of
Sultan Sayyid Abdul Qadir Geylani, Sayyid Ahmad-ar
Rifa’i and with the secret of our shaykh and teacher.
13. Shaykh says: Say with the words of Allah:
Everyone says: Lâ ilâha illâllah. There is no God but
Allah.
(Can start with Askin Ile Asiklar)
(Ilahis for Cehr’i/vigorous zikr)
move forward right (Lo) -, back center (il-lo), forward
left (a illa), back center (lo) – this makes one ill la la,
then repeat
14. Shaykh says: The Seal of our Prophets, our leader
Muhammed, Messenger of Allah, Reality and Truth.
15. Allah says in Quran-i Kerim, and there are
believers who remember me sitting, standing and
reclining, and look into space and say “O Lord, you
haven’t created all this for nothing. All praise belongs
to you. Please save us from the torment of fire.”
16: Everyone says: Salawat and Fatiha
Then prostrate and stand up
17. Sirni Ala - Everyone Sings slowly while turning
and swinging arms:
Allah – Allah, Allah, Allah - Oh Allah, Allah, Allah,
Allah
18. Everyone says: Allah Hu, Hu Allah
(as many times as necessary)
