30. New Dua: Each person says a short prayer invoking
two of the Names of Allah, group repeats the Names 7
times. The Shaykh finishes with a longer dua and more
repetitions of the Names in the dua.
From old manual: Go Down into Sejda and sit up –
Shaykh says Du’a:
Ya Allah we thank you very much for your
blessings and especially for bringing us together giving
us the opportunity to do your zikr. Please bestow a
portion of this zikr’s blessing on our dear Prophet (a.s.)
and his family and all the other Prophets and their
families. And a portion of it to our pirs Ali Waliallah, the
12 Imams, Abdul Qadir Geylani, Ahmed Rifa’i, Hishimi,
Husan, Husayn, Muhyiddin Ansari, Muhammed Ansari,
Taner Ansari, Ehli Beyt and Rasulallah. Oh Allah please
guide, nourish us, sustain us. Show us the truth and make
it easy for us to accept it and act with it. Show us the
false and make it easy for us to avoid it. Open our hearts
to Islam, surrender. Keep our hearts fixed on Islam. Open
our eyes and hearts to see you and help us to be with you
at all times. Protect us from our transactions, our nafs and
shaytan and against any evil intentions from any other
creations especially other humans and jinn when they
envy us or ignite our nafs both day and night. Oh Allah,
we take refuge in you from all the dangers that you have
created. Please make those of us and our children who are
studying, successful in their studies. Please help us and
them to learn, to give us all the love to learn, give us all
the love to learn you Allah. And make us successful in
your path. Help us to establish your tariqa and make us be
successful in establishing the tariqa in service for you,
help us to serve you Oh, Allah and take refuge in you,
you are our protecting friend and our trustee and our
master. Help us to clean our earth to leave it healthy for
other generations. Help us to resurface our virtues.
Sedaka la hul Azim - Amin
Shaykh says: Rida’an Lillâh, Ridza’an Rasülullah,
Ridza’an Piran, Qabul ad Du’a, al Fatiha
Everyone says Salawat and Fatiha
Shaykh says: A edzu billahi minesh shaytan irajim
31. Everyone says:
Sura Iklas
Sura Falaq
Sura Nas
Shaykh says:
Subhana rabbika, rabbil izzati ama yasifun, wa salamun
alal mursalin, wa alhamdulillah’i rabbil alamin. Al Fatiha
Everyone says Salawat and Fatiha
32. Everyone does sejda and stands and faces the
30. Prostrate and then sit up
Personal prayer
While Shaykh says the Pirs names everyone should
say Hu….slowly
Everyone says Salawat and Fatiha
31. Everyone says:
Sura Iklas (1 time)
Sura Falaq (1 time)
Sura Nas (1 time)
Shaykh says: Glory to our Lord, Lord of might and
honor, above all that is attributed to Him. And peace
be upon the messengers, and praise be to Allah, Lord
of the Worlds.
Everyone says Salawat and Fatiha
32. Everyone prostrates and stands and faces the
mihrab, feet sealed and says:
Hu
