Understanding Salat
Shaykha Muzeyyen Anne
Salat (also called Namaz) is the required ritual prayer practiced five times a day in which to praise
Allah, surrender to Allah, and give attentiveness to Allah. Salat is the reminder that we are Allah’s servants.
He is not ours. It is used as a way to refocus one’s attention and remembrance back to Allah throughout the
day. With salat the Sufi strives to make worship an act of connection and knowing. In the Holy Hadiths
(sayings that came through the Prophet [a.s.]), it says: “I was a hidden treasure and I loved to be known, so I
created the Universe so that I might be known.”
The salat contains units of prayer called rakats and the number of rakats performed is what
distinguishes each of the five prayers done throughout the day. Salat also has two distinct levels of praying.
One is called fardz salat, or the five obligatory prayers that Allah wants us to do, the other is called sunnah.
Sunnah is what the Prophet (a.s.) did in addition to the five obligatory daily prayers, in other words, extra
prayers. Shaykh Taner would like all of us to learn how to pray the fardz (obligatory) salat. He wants you
to learn fardz salat first in your own language and then in Arabic. You really need to know the meaning of
the prayer you are saying. As a matter of fact, Shaykh Taner prayed in Turkish until he understood exactly
what he was saying. This is important because when you are praying you are talking to Allah and Allah is
talking back to you. For example when you say, ‘Subhana Rabiyal A’la’ (All glory to my Lord, the Most
High), you are talking to Allah, praising Allah. When you are reading the Quran, Allah is talking to you.
After you have learned all the prayers in your language and in the Arabic language, you can then choose to
say salat in your language, with the exception of the Quran’s ayats and suras which must be said in the
Arabic language. However, Muslims around the world mostly say salat in Arabic.
There are twelve salat requirements. Salat can be performed publicly or privately. The conditions
to be met for salat are listed in the ’32 Fardz’ Section of the Murid Manual.
People who are exempt from salat are women during their menstrual cycle or anyone who is
actively bleeding, children under the age of puberty, or those who are incapacitated, unconscious or
mentally challenged.
“Establish regular prayers at the sun’s decline till the darkness of the night, and the recital of the
Quran in Morning Prayer, for the recital of dawn is witnessed. And as for the night, keep awake a
part of it as an additional prayer for you: soon will Your Lord raise you to a station of Praise and
Glory!” (17:78-79)
The salat times are listed in the ‘Salat’ Section of the Daily Practices Manual.
There are two times of the day that are particularly significant. If you are unable to do all your
prayers you must at least do the Morning Prayer, right before the sun rises and the Evening Prayer, right
after the sun sets. These are the times of strength and intensity, when the transition is happening, day to
night – night to day. The Quran says, “Establish worship at the two ends of the day and in some watches of
the night. Lo! Good deeds annul ill deeds. This is a reminder for the mindful.” (Hud XI, Part 12:114)
The following example will explain one rakat and the meaning behind the sayings and
movements. For your convenience, in the Daily Practices Manual ‘Salat’ you will find the prayers spelled
phonetically.
1. First you state your intention. You are going to say, for example, “I intend to pray two rakats of
Fajr or Morning Prayer for Allah’s sake.” While performing salat you should be concentrated in
your heart for Allah.
2. Then raise your hands to stand in takbir, (standing up facing Qible men - hands up to ears, palms
facing front with thumbs at earlobes, women - hands up to face, palms facing forward with their
index finger at jawbone, feet shoulder-width apart) and say, “Allahu Akbar” (Allah is Great).
With this intention, gesture and saying you put everything behind; it is time to focus on Allah.
