3. After this first, ‘Allahu Akbar,’ you will change your hand positions and stand in Qiam (men at
this point fold their right hand over their left, with their right hand index finger pointing at left
elbow and then placing both hands over their navel - women place your left hand on your heart
and place the right hand over the left hand with the index finger pointing towards the left elbow).
Different cultures do it differently depending on what schools they follow. You either do what
your shaykh does or what feels comfortable to you.
4. While standing in Qiam, the first prayer we do is not part of the Quran but a prayer that is
traditionally done. We say, “Subhaneka allahuma, webi hamdik, wete bare kesmuk, wete a la
jedduk, wela ilahe gheiruk” (I praise You O Allah, Your name is blessed and we don’t worship
anyone but You). At this point in your prayer you are talking to Allah. When you are doing this
traditional prayer you do not say – A euzu billahi minesh shaytan irrajim (I take refuge in Allah
from Shaytan the banished) or Bismillah’ir Rahman’ir Rahim (In the name of Allah, the Merciful,
the Compassionate) – because this prayer is not part of the Quran. You just say, “Allahu Akbar,”
and then, “Subhanka allahuma webi hamdik wet bare kesmuk, wete a la jedduk, wela ilahe
gheiruk.”
5. After the traditional prayer is said you read/recite the Ayat Fatiha from the Quran. Any time you
are reading or reciting from the Quran, with the very first Ayat you always say the full Bismillah;
which is – A euzu billahi minesh shaytan irrajim Bismillah’ir Rahman’ir Rahim (I take refuge in
Allah from shaytan the banished, In the name of Allah, the Merciful, the Compassionate). The
Quran says, “When you do read the Quran, seek Allah’s protection from satan, the rejected one.”
(16:98) After the first Ayat is read/recited then at the beginning of all the other Ayats you only
need to say, “Bismillah’ir Rahman’ir Rahim”. In fact, you will always say, “Bismillah’ir
Rahman’ir Rahim”, when you are starting to read or recite an Ayat from the Quran. This
designates this time of your prayer and/or reading to be between you and Allah. At the end of the
Ayat Fatiha the word daaal-leen needs to be elongated while spoken. The ‘daaal’ needs to be
drawn out long enough that you could say the Arabic letter ‘alif’ 4 times.
6. After Fatiha you read another Sura from the Quran (either Ikhlas, Falaq, Nas, Kursi or any of the
12 suras you are required to know).
7. Ikhlas (sura 112) is the most often repeated Ayat from the Quran. Shaykh Taner says this Ayat is
the description of Allah. Allah is energy. He was not born. He is the cause that has existed before
all. Of course Allah is not he or she. It is energy and energy does not have gender.
8. After reciting Fatiha and another ayat/sura you will say, “Allahu Akbar,” and change positions to
Ruku (bow at the waist and put your hands on your knees). While you are praying whenever you
move from one position to another you always say, “Allahu Akbar”. So, when you finish Ayat
Fatiha, which you are going to have to do with each rakat, then you do one verse from the Quran.
Then say, “Allahu Akbar,” while bowing to the waist and placing your hands to your knees. While
your hands are on your knees you say 3 times, “Subhana rabbiyal Azim” (How Glorious is my
Lord the Great). Here again you are talking to Allah.
9. Now you will stand up again (Qiam) and of course with this movement you say, “Allahu Akbar”.
While standing there you say, “Semi Allahu Limen Hamideh” (Allah heard those who praised
Him).
10. Then say, “Allahu Akbar”, because you are changing position again and are beginning to kneel
down into sejda, which means you are going to prostrate. While transitioning into prostration you
will say, “Rabbina lakal Hamd” (Our Lord, and praise be to You). When you are fully prostrated
you should be kneeling down with your hands open flat on the ground and your thumbs touching
each other. Your forehead should be touching the ground in the middle of the open space between
your hands with the bridge of your nose resting on your thumbs. While in sejda you will say three
times, “Subhana Rabiyal A’la” (All Glory to my Lord, the Most High). Prostration is an act of
surrendering oneself to Allah. The Prophet (a.s.) said, “Any believer who prostrates himself, will
