be raised one degree by Allah. As for what that degree consists of, know that it is not something
small, for each heaven might consist of one degree.”
11. It is said that everything in the universe prostrates to Allah knowingly or unknowingly. The Quran
states: “Whatever beings there are in the heavens and the earth do prostrate themselves to God
(acknowledging subjection), with good will, or in spite of themselves, so do their shadows in the
mornings and evenings.” (13:15)
12. Then sit back onto your heels (tashahud) and because you have changed positions again say,
“Allahu Akbar”. Take a second to take a breath in this position.
13. Then again say, “Allahu Akbar,” and move back down to sejda and say, “Subhana Rabiyal A’la,”
three times.
14. When you complete the circle of postures from Sejda (prostration) to Qiam (rising) to Ruku
(bowing) you have physically formed the word Allah.
15. This is the completion of one rakat. At this point, depending on which salat you are doing during
the day you would continue to repeat the required number of rakats starting with number 2.
When you repeat rakats, after you recite Fatiha, try to choose a different ayat from the Qur’an from the first
one you did in the other rakats. For example, if you did Ikhlas first then do Nas, or Falaq for the second
one.
One suggestion is to recite Falaq for the Morning Prayer. Falaq means Daybreak and according to my
understanding of this sura you are starting your day with Allah and you are taking protection in Allah from
evil. Falaq asks for “(refuge) from the evil of those who practice secret arts” and we know that many
people practiced magic in the old times and maybe even now. We are talking about evil intentions like
separating people; for instance, husbands from wives and horrible things like that. Falaq continues to ask
for “(refuge) from the people who practice envy.” Now this is a very important line. Envy of other people
can hurt you. It can hurt your energy body. In Islam this is called the ‘evil eye’. When people look at you
with envy and jealousy then they are directing negative energy towards you. Just like when people are
willing you and wishing you good and it helps you, conversely when they wish you bad it does not help
you. When you start your day, you should recite Ayat Falaq, Ayat Nas and Ayat Ikhlas 3 times and Ayat ul
Kursi.
When you have finished all your rakats remain in the tashahud (kneeling) position and recite the following
prayers in English or Arabic, which is what the Angels say. This is not a prayer from the Qur’an; it is a
prayer that all the Muslims around the world do and you are talking to Allah.
“In the name of Allah, the Beneficent, the Merciful.
All reverence, all worship, all sanctity are due to Allah. Peace be upon you, oh Prophet and the
Mercy of Allah and His Blessings.
And may Allah’s Peace be upon us, and the angels and on His righteous slaves. *I bear witness that
there is no God other than Allah. I bear witness that Muhammed is Allah’s Servant and His
Prophet.”
*This is the Shahada – Ashahadu ana la illaha illallah. Ashahadu ana Muhammedin abduhu wa
Rassulullah. This means you become a witness in Islam and it is the first Pillar of Islam.
Now we say the salawats (Asking Allah for peace and blessings upon the Prophet Muhammed) again in
English or Arabic.
