“In the name of Allah, the Most Merciful, the Most Beneficent
Oh Allah! Shower Thy blessings and Peace on our leader Muhammed and his family as You have
upon Ibrahim and his family. Surely You are the Praiseworthy and Glorious.
Oh Allah! Send Your Grace upon our Master Muhammed and his family as You have sent Your
Grace upon Ibrahim and his Family. Surely You are the Praiseworthy and Glorious.”
Now do this prayer.
“Please O Allah, please give us goodness in this world and in the hereafter and protect us from the
torment of fire.”
Now you do your personal prayers (Du’a), just talk with Allah. It is your wish list, what you would like to
ask from Allah, for example; O Allah, I want world peace, I want my kids to grow to be good people, etc.
Take your time; this is your time to talk with Allah. While making du’a it is traditional to place both hands
in front of yourself with the palms up and when finished pass your hands over your face. With these
actions we, inshallah, receive Allah’s help with open hands and then bathe our faces, inshallah, with
Allah’s grace.
Then turn your face to the right and greet the angels there by saying:
As-sa-la-mu a-lay-kum wa Rah-ma-tul-lah Peace be upon you and the Mercy
of Allah
Then turn your face to the left and greet the angels there by saying:
As-sa-la-mu a-lay-kum wa Rah-ma-tul-lah Peace be upon you and the Mercy
of Allah
At this point there are traditional prayers that are added on after the completion of the two, three or
four rakats. These are included in the actual ‘Salat’ section of the Murid Folder.
Congregational Salat
Adzan – (Call to Prayer – this is only done if more than one person is praying Salat together)
Iqama – everyone stands and face Ka’aba
Recited in a loud, clear voice by the Muezzin, Shaykh, Khalifa or leader.
Allahu Akbar 4 times Allah is Most Great
Ash-hadu ana la illaha ill Allah 2 times I testify that there is no God other than
Allah.
Ash-Hadu ana Muhammed-ar-rassulullah 2 times I testify that Muhammed is the Prophet
of Allah.
Hayya ‘alas-Salah; * 2 times Come to prayer (Face Right)
* (If Salat is before sunrise say:
A Salaatu karum min a nuun) (2 times Prayer is better than sleep)
Hayya ‘alal-Falah 2 times Come to success (prosperity) (face left)
Allahu Akbar 2 times Allah is Most Great
