A udhu billahi menesh sheytan irrajim I take refuge in Allah from Shaytan the
banished
Bismillah Ar-Rahman ir-Rahim In the Name of Allah, the Merciful
the Compassionate
Allahu la ilaha illa Huwa-l Hayyu-l Qayyum. Allah, there is no God save Him, the
Alive, the Eternal
La takhudhuhu sinatun wa la nawm. Neither slumber nor sleep overtake Him
Lahu ma fis-samawati wa ma fil ard. Unto Him belongeth whatsoever is in the
heavens and whatsoever is in the earth.
Man dhal-ladhi yashfau indahu illa bi-idhnih. Who is he that intercedeth with Him
save by His leave.
Ya alamu ma bayna aydihim wa ma khalfahum He knoweth that which is in front of
wa la yuhituna bi-shayin min ilmihi illa bi-ma them and that which is behind them,
sha. while they encompass nothing of His
Knowledge save what He will.
Wasia kursiyuhus-samawati wal ard. His Throne includeth the heavens and
the earth and He is never weary of
preserving them.
Wa la ya-uduhu hifzuhuma, wa Huwal Aliyul He is the Sublime, the
Azim. Tremendous.
Subhanallah (33 times, everyone) Glory to Allah
Alhamdulillah (33 times, everyone) All Praise to Allah
Allahu Ekbar (33 times, everyone) All power is Allah’s (Allah is Most Great)
The leader says in English:
La ilahe illallahu wahdehu la sharikala lehul There is no God other than Allah, He is one
mulku wa lahul hamdu wa huva ala kulli He has no partner, and everything belongs to
shayin qadiry. Him, and He is able to do all things.
Subhane rabbiyel aliyyel alel vahhab. Glory to You, my Lord, the Most High
the Giver of All.
Now say your Du’a (Silent Personal Prayer)
The leader says:
Wa alhamdulillah rabbil alamin, al Fatiha: All praise to Allah, Lord of all Worlds,
the Opening:
Congregation says sura Fatiha:
Allahumma salli ala sayyidina Muhammedin Oh Allah! Shower Thy blessings on our
wa ala ali sayyidina Muhammed leader Muhammed and his family
Bismillah Ar-Rahman ir-Rahim. In the name of Allah, the Merciful,
the Compassionate.
Al hamdu lillahi rabbil alamin All praise to Allah, Lord of all Worlds the
Ar-Rahman ir-Rahim The Merciful, the Compassionate
Maliki yawmid Din King of the Day of Judgment
Iyyaka nabodu wa iyyaka nasta-in Thee only do we worship and from Thee only do
