seek help;
ih dinas siratal mustaqim Guide us to the straight path
siratal lazina an amta alayhim The path of those to whom Thou has been
gracious
ghayril magdubi alayhim not of those who are condemned
walad dal-in. Amin. nor those who are misguided. Amen.
If the leader chooses, a public zikr could now begin.
Adab of Du’a
(Supplication/Personal Prayer)
by Shaykh Taner
In many traditions appealing to Allah or supplication is thought of as prayer but in Islam there is a distinct
difference between Salat (prayer) and personal prayers (du’a). Du’a is when someone makes personal
requests of Allah. You hold your hand up and ask Allah for whatever you want. The most important
requirement of a du’a is sincerity and it can be made in any language. One of the more common
supplications or du’a is, “Allah, give us the best in this life and the best in the next and protect us from the
punishment of the fire.” Allah, in the Quran, encourages du’a as it reminds us how much we need Allah.
Start du’a by thanking Allah for His blessings and His favors. Our Prophet (pbuh) says du’as made when
sandwiched between two salawats are accepted, “Allah, may your peace and blessings be upon our Prophet
and his family (don’t forget the family) and on all the other Prophets and their families.” Ask for Allah’s
forgiveness. Then you pray what you want and end with the second salawat.
When you are in zikr and are doing a public du’a and even in your personal du’a, there are certain
categories that you have to include:
1. Start with Bismillah’ir Rahman’ir Rahim and salawats (give peace and blessings on the Prophet
Muhammed (a.s.) and his family, and on all the other prophets and their families).
2. Give thanks to Allah.
3. Ask for guidance from Allah.
4. Ask Allah’s goodwill for your pirs and silsillah (tariqa lineage).
5. After asking for blessings on the lineage, pray for Shaykh Taner to be a strong Shaykh, and pray
for blessings on each of the murids
6. Ask for forgiveness for you and all the believers. (Remember you cannot ask for forgiveness for
unbelievers).
7. Ask for material and spiritual sustenance from Allah to provide for you and your family and what
Allah thinks is good for you.
8. Ask for good health.
9. Ask for protection — protection against your nafs and protection against Shaytan. Protection from
evil people and from people who make fitna. At the end of Baqara (25) it says, “…wa- uns.ur -naa
calaa al- qawm al- kaafiren… Help me against the unbelievers.”
10. Now you make your personal requests. You can ask for something from Allah. This is your time
to talk with Allah. You can also incorporate the prayers that our Prophet (a.s.) has used. For
example, “O Allah, please show us the truth and make it easy for us to act with it. Please show us
the false and make it easy for us to avoid it.”
11. End with salawat (give peace and blessings on the Prophet Muhammed (a.s.) and his family, and
on all the other prophets and their families)
