say it’s terrible, you say it is good; perhaps a little more salt and pepper would be good, help by being part
of the solution, not the problem. Or if someone makes a mistake, don’t tell them what a terrible job they are
doing, say here is something that may work better. If you go to another tariqa and they do things
differently, and they ask what you think, don’t tell them you don’t like what they are doing, it’s not good,
say, our Shaykh taught us this way and this is how we know our path. No arguments about this. Listen to
other ideas; they could be handy sometime. Also, do not try to keep correcting someone, learn to correct
once in a good way and be positive in attitude, give peace to people. Do not create fitna. In this world,
even if you don’t think it so, realize everyone is talking to you and try to learn something from everybody.
Always check: if you see someone doing something wrong, or you see something wrong with someone
check to see if you are doing the same thing. Your main job is to correct yourself. Everybody tries to
correct everyone else and other people will resist this, even you. So correct yourself. The inner you that
you can be put into outer action are through your hands and feet. Do not steal; your hands should be
helping. Remember to encourage the good and discourage the evil or the bad, if you can with your mouth,
with your hands, with your heart. With your tongue make zikr for people who are having trouble and are
doing stupid things say, ya Hakim, Ya Alim, if they are doing something bad say, ya Mani. With your heart
say, ‘O Allah please change this situation, please help them learn this’. Your intention has to be for
consideration for other people, you are not going to make yourself number one. Whatever culture you visit
you must know their social graces and laws. You are going to be just and you are going to observe Allah’s
rights and wrongs and you are always going to try to make Allah more pleased. Carry this intention within
you and act with it.
When a dervish removes his shoes and walks through the entrance of the dergah or tekke (Sufi
center), he leaves the everyday world with its worries and problems outside. The dergah becomes a school
in which to practice adab (proper behavior, courtesy). Many Shaykhs say that the dervish path is all adab.
Remember that your goal is to serve Allah through serving your Shaykh and others.
It is essential to follow the Shariat, as given in the Quran. The basic principles are the same as the
Ten Commandments; more details are given in the Fardz (obligatory requirements). The principles of adab
are: you go to the tekke not to show yourself off, you go there to learn, and the best way to learn is by
listening and observing. You have to learn to treat others as brothers and sisters and decent human beings,
and assume that everybody is more developed than you are. The tekke is the place to practice a humble
self-effacing attitude to the Shaykh and the other murids. It is the place to learn service. One should speak
softly, sit quietly, and follow the directions of the Shaykh or leader. The talk should focus on Allah, not
our nafs (selfish ego). We aren’t going to the tekke to gossip or to backbite. We’re going there to talk
about Allah so we can get rid of our negative habits. The aim is to control your nafs. That’s why you obey
the adab, because your nafs doesn’t want to. (Nafs is singular.)
The Shaykh/a is your soul’s guide to Allah. S/he takes you from where you are right now, and
uses your inner materials to nurture your heart. The Shaykh represents your highest potential. By putting
your trust in the Shaykh as a guide, you make the first step towards unifying yourself. On a personal basis,
the Shaykh goes within you, sees the distinction between your nafs and your True self, and helps you to
initiate the process of unification.
The Shaykh’s job is to help you prepare the soil to grow your heart-tree. Your heart, in its pure,
cleansed state, is the greatest treasure you will ever have. The Shaykh knows its worth and works with you
constantly to cleanse it of personal and cultural accretions. This is a labor of love and service. The Shaykh
knows that when the heart is cleansed, it is as though a spirit child is born (till-i maani), a child of the spirit
who sees, hears, speaks, and knows the languages of all living things. Allah’s blessings shower down upon
a clean heart.
A clean and pure heart is the beginning point for a dervish. When the eyes of the heart see the
world and life for what they truly are, a new life has begun. That is why adab (right action) is so strongly
taught. The heart-child is new and innocent, but because there is an awareness of the need for proper social
interaction, harm because of wrong action is avoided. The heart-child deserves our deepest respect, and so
we prepare for that meeting with adab.
Adab is the rudder of your spiritual voyage. It keeps you on the right course towards Allah. You
learn and practice adab with the Shaykh. The position of the Shaykh is a maqam, a station or post. As you
develop your relationship with the Shaykh, you are also learning how to relate to Allah. The Shaykh has
been appointed as Allah’s representative for you. This is a serious and deep commitment.
Adab with the Shaykh means to think of the Shaykh first, and not yourself. For example, you do
not engage in small talk, do not speak first, and always ask permission for anything. You wait until the
