Shaykh sits before you sit down. You rise when s/he rises. Learn the needs of your Shaykh, and keep them
in your mind, so that you may serve the Shaykh appropriately. Remember, it is not the person you are
serving, but what that person represents: Allah.
As Allah’s representative, the Shaykh/a has had to go through extensive and difficult training to be
able to serve Allah. All that the Shaykh does is for Allah’s sake, out of love for Allah. Your time with the
Shaykh should be one of service and quiet. The real teachings happen without words. It is a tuning of the
heart. When you are with the Shaykh, you are in Allah’s presence, and you should remain in a state of
prayer and obedience.
Emptiness is the key here. Without emptiness Allah cannot pour blessings in. The Shaykh has
visited the well of life and brought back the water for the thirsty to drink. Some complain about the cup,
some say it is the wrong time of day to drink. Some say they don’t like the cupbearer. The point, of course,
is: who cares about any of that as long as one gets the water to drink. If you are thirsty, you want water.
First, though, you must realize what thirst is and then discover that you are thirsty. Then find the water
carrier.
Being able to recognize a true teacher or Shaykh requires in itself a certain spiritual development.
You must have developed enough humility and truth about yourself to ask for help. Asking for help means
to leave your “independence” behind.
Through time and experience rabita develops. Rabita is the spiritual/mental/heart connection
between you and another person. In Sufism the primary rabita is between the murid (student) and the
Shaykh. Over time, many people experience a profound deepening of this connection. When you can begin
to trust the spiritual teacher, it means that the process of surrender can begin. Surrender, in Sufism, is
giving up what your nafs want and learning to listen to what Allah wants.
Before Arriving at the Dergah/Tekke
“Adab is the way of harmony, acting with deference to the scheme of the whole. It is a way of behaving
graciously which flows from the foundation of an inner attitude of surrender.” Shaykh Taner Ansari
When you come to the Sufi center, come with the intention that you will be in Allah’s presence. It
is necessary to arrive for mejlis (assembly) having first taken a thorough ritual bath or shower. It’s good to
have a clean mouth (clean teeth and breath), cleanliness of clothes, as well as deodorizing or lightly
perfuming the body as a courtesy to the Shaykh and others.
Shaykh Taner is your teacher and your spiritual father. His wife Muzeyyen Anne is your spiritual
mother. Shaykha Sheila Khadija is your spiritual aunt.
When Shaykh Arrives
As soon as you see the Shaykh arrive, stand up and greet him. As a greeting you may say, “Salaam
alaykum, Shaykh.” Then kiss the top of his right hand if he is not your Shaykh, or kiss the palm if he is
your Shaykh, and press his hand to your forehead. This is a Turkish custom of paying respect to elders,
which we have continued in the United States. It is also a symbolic kissing of the Prophet Muhammed’s
(peace be upon him) hand. You welcome the other people who have come with him in the following order:
his wife, his family, his khalifas, his guests, and his murids. If the Shaykh or his wife is carrying
something, take it from them. His wife is your spiritual mother. She is referred to as Anne (pronounced
ah~neh, mother) or Asli Anne.
Respect Towards the Shaykh
The closer you get to the Shaykh the greater your respect must be. You must not act too familiar
or disrespectful. Address Shaykh by title, e.g., Shaykh Taner, Shaykh Ibrahim, Shaykha Khadija.
In the Learning Circle
When the Shaykh enters the room, it is respectful to stop talking, stand up and wait for the Shaykh
to be seated. Sit down only after the Shaykh sits down and quietly wait until the Shaykh starts to speak.
Serve the Shaykh his tea. (Shaykh says, “No tea, no talk.”) While waiting for the Shaykh to speak, make
rabita (connection), go deeper into your heart and center yourself so that you are in a position to learn with
your whole being. When the Shaykh begins his talk, listen with your heart. Allah speaks to you through the
Shaykh. Do not interrupt, as the message may be lost. At the end of the discourse, the Shaykh will open the
