When the Shaykh is ready to depart, thank him and guests for visiting you. The murids, especially
the men, carry the Shaykh’s things back to the car and wait in attendance until he leaves before returning to
the house.
Getting the House Ready to Receive Shaykh Taner
Shaykh Taner has allergies. He is allergic to pine, molds, and pesticides. During his allergy
attacks, his eyes bother him. Clean the house and remove any plants to which the Shaykh may be allergic.
Burn incense and do protection prayers around the house. Have tea prepared. Shaykh cannot drink
black teas. Check to find out what he prefers. He does not like his tea very strong. Please make sure that his
teacup is full, especially when he is giving a discourse.
Always refer to the Shaykh by his title; e.g., Shaykh Taner, Baba (father), or Taner Baba. Don’t
use his first name even when you are talking with other people about him. His wife is your spiritual mother.
She is referred to as Muzeyyen Anne (pronounced ah~neh, mother) or Asli Anne.
Food for Shaykh Taner
Cook things your Shaykh likes. Shaykh has some health problems that prohibit him from eating
hot, spicy foods. He cannot eat cumin. He prefers simple meals. At dinner he likes a simple meat, chicken
or fish dish, served with rice and salad. Stews are fine, but remember not hot, spicy. Put a saltshaker by his
plate and serve lemon wedges or lemon juice as a condiment.
Shaykh is lactose intolerant to certain dairy products, like whole milk. However, he can eat yogurt
with his meals.
For breakfast, which is more like brunch, for example, he eats eggs, feta cheese, olives, tomatoes,
and flat bread. Feel free to ask him what other foods he would like for his meals.
Keep fresh fruit available for him to snack on. He especially likes watermelon, grapes, and
oranges. However, you may offer him any fruit native to South Africa/Tanzania.
Always serve the Shaykh first when others will be sharing the meal. When the Shaykh finishes
eating, he generally does table prayers (ceremonial zikr). If you have not finished eating, stop until the
prayers are over, then continue eating.
Rest for Shaykh Taner
Because of the intensity of the spiritual energy that the Shaykh is carrying, he needs to rest
periodically. Please be aware of this and make sure that he gets his rest. At least once a day, a man should
massage the Shaykh's feet and lower legs, which help promote his well-being. The Shaykh needs to be kept
warm. He is disturbed by drafts and cold.
General Adab
If you are not sure about adab, after asking your heart, ask the Shaykh’s wakils or khalifas what is
appropriate.
The individual key in all adab is, of course, the Shaykh. He is the one who sets the tone of the
halka (circle). What will be studied in the gathering is the responsibility of the Shaykh, as is when the
activity will begin and end. Communications pass through him. He is the first person the dervish greets
when he arrives at the tekke, and the first one the dervish takes his leave of when leaving. The dervish asks
the Shaykh’s permission before undertaking any major decision, such as moving, traveling, or getting
married. A good attitude to have is to talk with or email one’s Shaykh at least once a week, if not more.
All instructions given by the Shaykh to murids should be treated as confidential, just as all
personal issues discussed by the murid with the Shaykh are confidential. Do not ask a fellow dervish about
their practices or compare yours to anyone else’s. Practices are given for the particular person’s
guidance/requirements, and most likely will be quite different than others’. Discussion of “visions,”
dreams, and other spiritual phenomena are discouraged between murids because of the confusions, as well
as subtle competitiveness, that may arise, unless they are being used in teaching to help the brother or sister
murid.
The most destructive and damaging problem in a spiritual group is backbiting. Backbiting occurs
when one or more people criticize the character of another individual who is not present. This kind of
destructive behavior can destroy a dervish halka, and once the damage is done it’s difficult to repair. The
