tekke is the place where the nafs is gradually brought into alignment with Reality. It is therefore expected
that conflicts will arise. Because of this, adab becomes a practice of extreme importance, not a mere
formality.
You learn by listening and observing. If you want to say something while the Shaykh is talking or
if you have a question, politely ask the Shaykh for permission to talk. The Shaykh might have you wait
because what is coming through might be forgotten if he is interrupted.
You can show disagreement with the Shaykh or other murids in a respectful way. (This doesn’t
mean that you are right!) If you hear something that you disagree with, put it in the “bag” behind you. If
you hear something that you agree with, put it in the “bag” in front of you. There might come a time when
you understand what you had previously disagreed with.
(In a humorous vein:)
Rule 1, is that the Shaykh is always right.
Rule 2, if you think the Shaykh is wrong, refer to Rule 1.
You can learn this the easy way or the hard way. The easy way is by listening to your Shaykh. If
you don’t, then you learn the hard way.
You are free to join the halka of another tariqa and do their zikr if you have permission of your
Shaykh, and the permission of the Shaykh of that tariqa. Your adab should be the same as with their own
Shaykh. If there are unique or different aspects to the adab of the other tariqa, honor these also. If the
Shaykh of the other tariqa offers the baraka (blessings) of his order in the form of biat (initiation, taking
hand), tell the Shaykh of your primary connection to your own tariqa and whether or not you have your
Shaykh’s permission to accept honorary biat. A dervish should ask to be released from commitment to his
or her own Shaykh before fully entering any other tariqa and taking full biat.
Adab of Handling the Qur’an
The Quran is not an ordinary book. It is a holy book, containing the words of Allah to our Prophet
(pbuh) and so it must be treated with respect. Do not leave it lying around or pick it up casually. There are
certain musts and certain suggestions in touching the Quran, particularly if the Arabic text is included. It
has been said that if you take care of the Quran, it will take care of you.
Reading or reciting the Quran is a sacred activity, like prayer and zikr. Before you open the book,
you should always do wudu (ritual cleansing). It is also suggested that you dress as you would to offer salat
(prayer): both sexes dressing modestly and women covering their heads. State your intention (niyat) to read
the Quran and hold it higher than your waist, sitting in a respectful position. Anytime you are not reading
the Quran, close it, even if you are briefly interrupted and intend to resume reading soon.
Always store the Quran in a clean place that is higher than your waist. It should never touch the
floor, where people walk. Also, don’t put any other books, or anything else for that matter, on top of the
Quran. The Quran, or even any piece of paper on which ayat (verses) are written, should never be thrown
away, but burned instead.
English translations of the Quran, without the Arabic text, may be treated with less formality if
you are referring to them for learning purposes. You may touch them without first performing ablution
(wudu). Of course, even with English versions, the more respect you give to the Quran, the more blessings
you open yourself up to receive.
Adab of Being a Guest
Short Term Visit
1. As a guest, you should make arrangements with or notify the host before the visit.
2. If you are a man visiting another married man, you shouldn’t enter the house if only the wife is
present. If you are a woman visiting a married woman, you shouldn’t enter the house if only the
husband is present.
3. If you are a man visiting a woman, you should be in the presence of a third person unless the
woman is a relative or has a muta (committed relationship) with you, which is publicly known. If
you are a woman visiting a man, you should be in the presence of a third person.
4. Restrict yourself to the areas of the house to which you have been permitted by the host.
