5. Be kind, take what is offered, and make no unnecessary demands.
6. Respect the host and household; e.g., the family, dog or cat, property.
7. Volunteer to help with meals.
8. Do not judge the host in his or her family situation. Mind your own business and respect the
confidentiality of the host and the house.
9. Do not spread gossip after the visit.
10. Eat and drink what is offered and show appreciation with words and actions.
Long Term Visit
1. Follow the advice given for a short-term visit.
2. Always take a gift to the host.
3. The host is including you in his or her household, and thus you are witnessing the host’s privacy.
Do not try to change the lifestyle of the host and his or her family or object to how they run their
household. Do not meddle in their family matters; remember that you do not know the history of
the situation. If you make decisions or judgments in haste about situations in the household, you
are probably wrong.
4. Try not to be a burden financially or socially by making unreasonable demands or expressing
unsolicited opinions.
5. Help them in their everyday life as much as they let you. Offer your help physically and
financially if you are able.
6. Don’t try to exploit or abuse their hospitality. Don’t overstay your welcome. Remember that they
are having you in their house for Allah’s sake. They trust you. Don’t betray their friendship, their
property, their life, or their trust.
Adab of Eating
Eating is an important human activity. It is not only good for nourishing the body, but also good
for nourishing the mind and soul. Allah, The Most High, says in Quran-i-Kerim, “Don’t eat like unbelievers;
they eat like cows do.”
Eat, Drink, But Don’t Waste
Eating is experiencing the manifestation of Allah’s attributes with our senses. Because of this we
have to respect our food. Before you eat, you have to start with “Bismillah’ir Rahman’ir Rahim, In the
Name of Allah, the Most Merciful, the Most Compassionate.” It is very important to pray over our food.
We should pray “Ya Nur” over all the food in addition to doing the mealtime prayers (Lailaha il Allah, Ya
Allah, Ya Hu, the Fatiha).
The Order of Eating
Our Pir, Imam Ali, used to begin his meal with salt and finish with salt in order to activate the
digestive system. After the salt, one should have the soup (if soup is served), then the main course with rice
and salad. It is suggested that you don’t have more than one main course at a time. (You shouldn’t mix
many kinds of foods in the same meal.)
Water should be drunk sparingly during a meal. It is better for the digestion to drink water at least
fifteen minutes after eating, but better if you wait a couple of hours. When you drink water, always sit
down to drink it.
The ideal way to eat is to have the heavy meal at lunch and the light meal in the evening. If you
are going to eat any animal products (fish, chicken, beef), eat it at lunch. Save the evening for vegetables
and rice. Our Prophet (a.s.) has warned us not to fill our stomach to the top, but to leave one third of it
empty.
When to Start Eating
A Sufi doesn’t eat until he or she is hungry. If you are eating as a group of adults, you should not
start eating until the eldest or the spiritual leader starts. If you are eating with your Shaykh or Shaykha,
don’t touch the food until he or she does. If there are children, feed them before the adults.
