Always begin and end the meal with a prayer. If the family is eating the meal together, the head of
the household (father, mother or whomever the parents appoint) recites the prayers.
A very important aspect of the adab of eating is that the food must come from halal means; that is,
from honest earnings (that with which Allah is pleased). Children must be fed from halal earned income
because the means in which they are fed reflects in the children’s character as they grow up. If this doesn’t
happen, all the adab you have is useless.
Adab of the Shaykh – His Behavior and Manners - By Shaykh Taner
Shaykh has to be on a very high adab level. We can categorize this into certain sections:
1. His adab to his Shaykh and his silsillah, ultimately to the Prophet (pbuh) and to Allah.
2. His adab to the general public
3. His adab to his murids
4. His adab with other Shaykhs
5. His adab with other Shaykhs’ murids
First of all, in order to be a Shaykh, and to continue to be a Shaykh you have to follow your own
Shaykh. You have to have your own Shaykh’s adab with you, by showing respect to your Shaykh whether
he’s passed away or not. You have to make rabita to him at all times and assume that you don’t exist, that
your Shaykh is the one who is running the affairs. So you have to be humble and modest. You always have
to take our Prophet (a.s.) as an example. Your actions have to be correct with the sharia, tariqa, haqqiqa,
and marifa.
As you show respect to your Shaykhs and your Pirs, you also have to show respect to others’
Shaykhs and Pirs. Assume that your Shaykhs are also them. A Shaykh’s adab with the general public is
based on his remembering that he is representing the Prophet (a.s.), and he must act with each person
according to his or her level of understanding. You have to be modest and more tolerant. You must be very
patient in order to explain things to people in a way that they can understand. Don’t despise anybody.
With our own murids you also have to act with kindness, love, and compassion. Your goal should
be only their own good. Sometimes you might have to yell at them or punish them. This is not from
vindictiveness, but from doing what is good for them. You must never lose sight of the goal. Your job is
only to help them get to Allah.
A Shaykh should never try to take advantage of his murids. If they have money or other
properties, he should not try to get these away from them for his own use. If they donate or give willingly
for the tariqa or for Allah’s sake or for himself, then it is acceptable. But he should not devise a plan to take
their money or properties.
There are five things that a Shaykh must be aware of, as they can become problems for him:
1. Fame
2. Money
3. Women
4. Drinking and drugs
5. Vanity
Having vanity is thinking that you are it and you don’t need your Shaykh anymore. You always
need your Shaykh. Remember, it is not you who is doing anything. It is Allah who is acting through the line
of your silsillah; it is Allah who is doing things through you. You are Allah’s door. People are not coming
for you, but rather they are coming for Allah through you. That is, they are coming to you for Allah. Don’t
think that all this attention is for you. You have to pass it up to Allah, all that attention and love being for
Him. You have to disappear.
When it comes to the Shaykh’s adab with other Shaykhs, he should always treat other Shaykhs as
his equal or better. He should not try to overpower them or take over and see them as smaller. Sometimes
Arabic speaking people think that they have automatic rights, that they are the most perfect Muslims. They
think that non-Arabic speaking people don’t know, that they must take charge and start teaching them
because they are better than them. Remember, our Prophet (a.s.) said, “Arabs are no better than Persians,
and Persians are no better than Arabs, but people pass each other only with their actions. Whoever does the
good action gets closer to Allah.” So you have to respect other Shaykhs too.
