When you encounter other Shaykhs’ murids, you should not talk to them on your own. If you need
some service from them, you have to go to their Shaykh and their Shaykh will try to get someone to help
you. You don’t see other Shaykhs’ murids as your servants or try to get their money or see them as an
opportunity to get money. First of all, a Shaykh should not lie to get money. A Shaykh should not cheat to
collect money. Whatever money he does collect, he has to use it for the purpose for which he is collecting.
Remember, our Prophet (pbuh) didn’t cheat or lie.
Some Shaykhs try to steal other Shaykhs’ students. This is a shame. If you are a Shaykh, you
should know who your son or daughter is. You should not be after anybody else’s daughter or son.
As a Shaykh you should not brag about how many followers you have. You don’t brag at all. It is
not important how many followers you have. The important thing is how many of them you took to Allah.
Can you spend time with all of them? Are you showing the proper affection for them? Having a lot of
people behind you doesn’t make you a good Shaykh. Michael Jackson has more people, but he’s not a
Shaykh.
A true Shaykh serves Allah only, and he lets Allah do everything. He knows his children and he
takes care of them. He doesn’t use them or abuse them. Everything has to be for their own good and in the
line of getting them to Allah.
So we all have to follow the Prophet’s (a.s.) footsteps in Sharia, in Tariqa, in Haqqiqa, and in
Marifa. If you are not doing this, don’t cheat people by claiming you are a Shaykh. If you are cheating,
lying, drinking, smoking pot, and other such things, how can you declare that you are a Shaykh?
One more important issue is that your students are our children. You cannot marry them, you
cannot molest them, and you cannot have any sexual contact with any of them whether it’s legal or not. It is
absolutely illegal for a Shaykh to have any sexual contact with his students. You have to follow the Prophet
(pbuh), that’s all.
A true Shaykh gives the truth. We just represent the truth and nothing but the truth. The people
have to see and compare, they have to decide who is true or not. If you are a liar, Allah will lead you to a
liar Shaykh. If you are true, Allah will lead you to a true Shaykh. The truth is available. What we try to do
is make it available to people.
The conditions of a true Shaykh are the following:
1. He follows the sharia.
2. He speaks about what is in your heart. He answers questions that you have not spoken aloud.
3. When you are in his presence you forget your troubles. He takes your load.
4. He praises Allah and not himself.
5. He has a silsillah (lineage) and a license to teach the path.
If someone fits these conditions, he or she is on the right path, and still Allah knows if he is a true
Shaykh or not, if he has a silsillah or not; it depends on a lot of things. But if he doesn’t fit them, he is not a
Shaykh at all, whether he has a silsillah or not. He is in the wrong.
May Allah help all the Shaykhs to be true; may Allah help us to clean ourselves and be real, true
Shaykhs. Our purpose in writing this article is to try to point out some problems in this society. We are not
trying to point our finger at any particular person, and that is not our job. It is the job of the people to
decide whom they belong to and who is real or not. May Allah help all the Shaykhs who are true and
everybody else who is trying to carry Allah’s message, so that they can move one more step toward Allah.
May Allah bless them all. Amin
Adab of the Murshid (Shaykh)
By Shaykh Muhyiddin Ansari
What about the Murshids? How should they act? Abdul Qadir al-Jilani says, “The Murshid should
accept a murid only for the sake of Allah.” Keep in mind the hadith that says religion is advice. He must be
with his murids. He must be kind to his murids and not put heavy loads on them that they cannot carry. He
must raise them like a mother raising her children. The Murshid requires his murid to do the things that are
permitted in the Shariat.
The Murshid should not exploit his murids financially. He must expect his payment from Allah. On the
other hand, he can accept help from his murids in the form of a gift as long as it is the murid’s own will
without any influence on the Murshid’s part.
Murshids can collect or accept money such as zakat for the purpose of giving to the poor or building a
masjid (mosque), etc.
