The Murshid should advise murids and should be soft to them. The Murshid should take our Prophet
(a.s.) as an example in his teachings.
When a Murshid realizes that his attitude is hindering the growth of his murids, he should resign
himself from the post of enlightening and work on attaining better manners. He should himself look for a
Murshid who will help him better himself. As you see, the Murshid has to be mature (kamil).
True Murshids are mature Murshids. They have cleansed themselves of their nafs. This is why Allah
has appointed them to this position.
A Murshid cannot accept murids of another Murshid without the permission of that murid’s Murshid.
True Murshids recognize who belongs to them and who belongs to another Murshid. Murshids respect each
other and they should cooperate.
Quotes of Prophet Muhammed on Generosity
• If anyone gives as charity as little as a date that has been lawfully earned, God will accept it with
His right hand, then nurture it on behalf of the one who gave it in the same way that one of you
nurtures a colt, till it becomes like a mountain.
• Every act of kindness is an act of charity... Do not consider any act of kindness insignificant, even
meeting another with a cheerful face.
• Worship the Compassionate One, provide food, and greet everyone you meet, and you will enter
paradise in peace.
• The most excellent charity consists in your satisfying a hungry stomach.
• When Aisha asked the Prophet what things were unlawful to refuse, he replied, "Water, salt and
fire. To those who give fire, it is as if they had given in charity everything cooked by that fire. To
those who give salt, it is as if they had given in charity everything freshened by that salt. To those
who give water where water is found, it is as if they had freed a slave. To those who give water
where there is none, it is as if they had given the thirsty one life."
Allah’s 99 Beautiful Names
By Shaykh Taner
The Sufi's goal in life is to achieve an intimate understanding of, and love for, God. As in any
pursuit, he must have some idea of what he is looking for. The Sufi therefore asks, who or what is God?
The cornerstone of faith for all Muslims, including Sufis, is the statement "La ilaha illa 'llah," that
is, "There is no god but God." Muslims call God "Allah" because there is no gender implied in this Arabic
appellation. Allah can have no gender because it would be a limiting factor, and Allah can have no limits.
Muslims believe that God is omniscient, omnipotent, and is the uncaused Cause of all creation. Allah is
without limit in every dimension, infinitely and eternally, the formless Creator of all forms. Allah is neither
created nor can He be destroyed.
For Sufis, because Allah is both uncreated and the Creator, Allah is the fundamental energy which
has existed before all time. Furthermore, because Sufis believe that Allah is the Being who contains infinite
knowledge and power to act in whatever way He wills, the Sufi concept of Allah includes His
comprehensive consciousness. Simply put, Allah is the conscious energy of the universe, aware of and in
command of all existence, unbounded by time or space. Allah defines Himself in the Holy Quran as "... the
Light of the heavens and the earth" (24:35). Just as we understand that light is energy, we conceive of Allah
as energy. Allah as pure energy is formless, but contains the potential to create all forms. Allah's power is
at once the energy used to create all forms, and the energy/substance of forms. We find the Sufi point of
view supported by scientific research in the following statement: "'Light' creates our world of pattern and
form. In agreement with many other scientists, we defined the domain for 'light' as the full range of the
electromagnetic spectrum in modern physics theories. ... Everything in the physical world represents
various manifestations of light." All creation consists of Allah's own substance. The basic matter of all
