As-salaamu alaykum: “Peace be upon you.”
Ash-hadu an la ilaha illallah: “I bear witness that there is no god but Allah.”
Asma ul Husna: The 99 Names of Allah that are used individually or together in zikr.
Awliya: The saints and friends of Allah (plural).
Ayat: Sign, indication, verse.
Ayn-al-Yaqin: Lit., the eye of undeniably sure knowledge; apprehension of sure
knowledge; apprehension of sure knowledge by way of personal
experience and observation.
Azrael: The archangel who takes the souls from their bodies at death.
B
Badal: Substitute; a wali who is in such a state of surrender to Allah that he performs
divine duties spontaneously; a minister to the qutb.
Bakabillah: Lit., being constant in Allah.
Baqa: The state of “subsistence,” continuing awareness through Allah.
Baraka: The “grace” or spiritual energy emanating from Allah through the silsillah of
the Tariqat through which all practices are accomplished.
Bast: The state of expansion or elation.
Batin: Hidden.
Biat (or Biat): A pledge or promise, initiation.
Beautiful Names: See Most Beautiful Names.
Bektashi: Name of a widely known Sufi Tariqa founded by Haji Bektash Wali
(1281-1338 C.E.); a Sufi who belongs to the Bektashi Tariqa.
Bella: affliction, adversity and trouble
Beloved: An appellation of Allah particularly meaningful to Sufis.
Biat (or Biat): Pledge of allegiance; solemn vow taken between a Sufi initiate
and his Shaykh.
Bismillah: “In the name of Allah.”
Bismillah er Rahman er Rahim: Lit., “In the name of God, the Most Merciful,
the Most compassionate”, known as the Bismillah.
Burhan: The state of spiritual possession.
C
CARCAN: a form of public humiliation by exposition at a pole, but also for a type of
stocks that encloses hands and necks in a heavy wooden board.
Confession of Unity: “la ilaha illa ‘laah.” (“There is no god but God’).
D
Dajjal: The evil misleader; the Antichrist.
Dede: Lit. “Grandfather,” an elder dervish with spiritual standing within the order,
usually the same level as a Khalifa.
Dedeghan: Elders or senior members of a Sufi Tariqa.
Dergah: Gathering place; place where zikr and sohbet are held. “Royal court” the
tomb of a saint and also the center which serves as the headquarters
of a particular branch of an order.
Dervish: A student of Sufism; a degree of advancement in a Sufi student. “Poor one,”
synonymous with fakir, a formal member of an order. In the
Qadiri Rifa’i, a salik who has attained maturity of the path.
Dhawg: Lit. “taste”, perceptivity gained through divine grace.
Du’a: Prayer or invocation.
Dunya: Material world.
E
Ehli bayt: Muhammed’s (a.s.) Family
Ehli samawat: People of the heavens.
Estaghfirullah: “I ask forgiveness of Allah.”
F
Fakr: Poverty
Fakir: Poor person, in knowledge
