Fana: Dissolving; merging; ending. Stage of “annihilation” in the journey to God,
cessation of ego-awareness that may be accomplished in
various levels or depths.
Fanaful Pir: Dissolving in the Pir.
Fanaful Rasul: Dissolving in the Messenger (a.s.).
Fanaful Shaykh: Dissolving in the Shaykh.
Fanafullah: Dissolving in Allah.
Fatiha: Opening verse of the Quran
Fitna: Causing strife among people by gossiping and backbiting, and by nafs, the selfish
ego
G
Gaffar: Able to forgive.
Gawsul Azam: The Greatest Helper; an honorific title referring
to the Sufi saint and founder of the Qadiri Tariqa, Hazreti Abdul
Qadir Geylani (r.a.), which describes his power of intercession on
behalf of the believer.
Ghaiba: gossiping and backbiting
Ghawth: Helper, very high station in hierarchy.
Ghawth-i-Azam: “The Greatest Help(er),” a title of Pir Abdul Qadir al Geylani.
Gospel: The scripture sent to Prophet Isa (a.s.).
H
Habibullah: The lover of Allah; Allah’s beloved.
Hadith: Lit. tradition; well-known anecdote concerning the actions and sayings of
Prophet Muhammed (a.s.) as based on eyewitness accounts; also
known as Qudsi-Hadith; hadiths is a compilation of such
anecdotes.
Hadrah: Lit. “presence,” a gathering for the practice of zikr often accompanied with
movement.
Hadrat: See Hazreti.
Hafi: Silent Zikr
Haidar: The ornamental vest worn by a dervish.
Hajj: Pilgrimage to Mecca.
Hajji: Pilgrim.
Hal: A temporary spiritual state, as opposed to maqam, which is a permanent
spiritual station.
Halal: Permissible, according to sacred law, or sharia, or Islamic law.
Halka: Lit. “circle”, a group which gathers to practice or study Sufism, usually a
Shaykh
and murids.
Halwet: Spiritual retreat; (Turk.) is often 40 days.
Haram: Forbidden, according to sacred law, or sharia.
Hazreti: The Great; an honorific title (abbr. Hz.).
Himmah: Force of heart, decisiveness.
Hu: Third person singular pronoun, without gender, used in invocation, zikr.
I
Ibadat: Spiritual service.
Ijaza: The license to teach Sufism.
Ilm-al-Yaqin: Lit., the knowledge of undeniably sure knowledge; apprehension
of sure knowledge by way of written or verbal communication.
Ilm: Knowledge of science.
Iman: True faith.
Insan-i-Kamil: The perfected human being.
Insha Allah: If Allah wills.
Irada: The quality of spiritual aspiration.
Irfan: Gnosis; inner knowing, direct perception of Reality.
Irshad: Teaching the way to enlightenment, guidance or direction.
