Ishq: Ardent love; passion or ardent desire.
Islam: Submission.
Ismi Jalal: Lit., the Name of Might, i.e., “Allah.”
Israfil: The archangel who will “blow the trumpet” on Judgment Day.
J
Jaheri zikr: Ceremonial remembrance of Allah executed in such a way as to be
audible to others.
Jalal: Lit., Might; Allah’s attributes of power or wrath.
Jamal: Lit., Beauty; Allah’s attributes of mercy.
Jibril: The archangel whose responsibilities include conveying messages and scriptures
from Allah to His prophets and other saintly people; known also
as Gabriel.
Jihad: Holy war, struggle or fight or effort.
Jihadu nafs: The holy war against one’s ego or self.
Jinn: Non-human being who is comprised of an electricity-like form of energy and is
not visible to the ordinary human eye; beings of the spirit world.
Jismani Ruh: Lit., corporeal soul; one of the four composite human souls; the soul
whose substance issues forth from the life-force of Allah.
Jubbe: A long gown with full sleeves.
K
Kaaba: The house of Allah in Mecca, originally built by Adam (a.s.), rebuilt by
Ibrahim (a.s.), and rededicated by Muhammed (a.s.); the sacred
destination of Muslim pilgrims.
Kabbala: Judaic mysticism.
Kafir: Unbeliever
Kalimah: The Islamic Creed.
Kanzi Mahfi: Secret Treasure
Kashf: Intuition, occasionally experience in lawami, sudden intuitions.
Khafi Zikr: Ceremonial remembrance of Allah executed in such a way as to be
audible only to oneself.
Khalifa: Lit., “vice-regent,” a deputized teacher or (sometimes) the designated
successor of a particular Shaykh.
Karama: Miracles
L
La Hawla wa la quwwata ila billahi ul Ali ul Azim: “There is no power or
strength except in Allah, the High, the Mighty.”
La ilaha illallah: “There is no god but God”; the Muslim declaration of faith; the
affirmation of the oneness of Allah. (There is no reality but God).
Laylatul Qadr: Night of Power, observed annually on one of the last ten days of the
Muslim month of Ramadan, during which Allah sends angels with
special blessings to mankind.
Laqab (nickname): “The White Falcon,” al-Bax al-Ashab, a title of Pir Abdul Qadir
al Geylani.
Levhi Mahfuz: a book where whatever will happen in the universe is written
M
Malak: Lit., having the power and ability to do deeds; Angel.
Ma’rifa: Mystical knowledge of all types held to be valid.
Masjid: mosque
Mahabba: Love or attraction.
Mahabbat: The state of effacement.
Maqam: (Makam) Station; spiritual level. A station or stage of spiritual development.
Maqamat: Lit., “station,” pl. of maqam, a more permanent condition having refined
one’s nafs. Permanent spiritual station
Marifa: State of knowing; state of Muhammed’s (a.s.) understanding.
Masjid: “mosque” in the West, literally “place of prostration.”
Messenger: An envoy, who also may be a prophet or an angel, sent by Allah to
