convey a message to humanity and/or jinn.
Mevlevi: Name of a widely known Sufi tariqa founded by followers of Mevlana
Jalaluddin Rumi (1207-1273 C. E.); a Sufi who belongs to the
Mevlevi Tariqa.
Meydan: Means opening a circle of zikr by calling the Pirs
Meydan-ji: Maydan is literally the “field” or “meeting-place;” meydan-ji is an
elder dervish who helps other students learn the proper customs
and procedures of the Tariqat.
Mikhail: The archangel whose responsibilities and powers include managing weather
patterns on earth; also known as Michael.
Miraj: See below
Miraj-i-manawi: Prophet Muhammed’s (a.s.) famed spiritual Night Journey in which
he visited sacred sites on earth and traversed the heavens; the spiritual
journey taken by Sufis after completion of the process of tasawwuf.
Mihdi: One who is guided.
Mihrab: The niche in the wall, which shows the direction of prayer.
Most Beautiful Names: The attributes by which Allah describes Himself.
Muezzin or Mu’adh dhin: One who calls people to prayer, which is the adzan.
Muhasibi: Lit., “rendering account,” taking stock of one’s actions.
Muhyi-ud-din: “The Reviver of the Faith”, a title of Pir Abdul Qadir al Geylani.
Mu’min: Believer
Muraqaba: Meditation practiced in solitude.
Murid: Lit., “directed one,” a person who has accepted a spiritual director. Sufi student;
the one who surrenders his will and power to Allah.
Murshid: Lit., one who enlightens; Sufi master. Teacher of the Sufi Path, a title usually
reserved for the head of an order.
Muslim: One who submits to God.
Mutasadduq: The charitable one.
N
Nafs: Lit., breath; egoistic nature; man’s animal nature; the whole man as an individual
being. Personality/ego clusters which control people and keep
them from seeing Truth until the nafs is purified, refined, and
transcended.
Nafile ibade: Good worship
Nahy-i-munkar: The discouraging of ill deeds.
Naqshbandi: Name of a widely known Sufi Tariqa founded by Bahauddin Naqshbandi
(1318-1389 C.E.); a Sufi who belongs to the Naqshbandi Tariqa.
Ninety-Nine Names: See Most Beautiful Names.
Nur-i-Muhammed: The Light of Muhammed; the first created entity.
P
Pir: Spiritual ancestor; founder of a Sufi Tariqa; living principal of a Sufi tariqa.
Pir-i-Dastgir: “Who Takes by the Hand,” a title of Pir Abdul Qadir al Geylani.
Postaki or Post: A sheepskin used in place of a prayer rug.
Prophet: A designated representative of Allah, whose mission on earth was to enlighten
mankind as to spiritual truth, dispense Allah’s power as needed, and
warn mankind of imminent consequences for their wrongdoing;
one of the keepers of the covenant between mankind and Allah;
The Prophet refers to Muhammed of Arabia (a.s.).
Psalms: A scripture revealed to Prophet David (a.s.) in the form of a compilation of
devotional lyric verses.
Q
Qabz: Contraction or deflation.
Qadiri: Name of a widely known Sufi tariqa founded by Abdul Qadir Geylani (1078-
1166 C.E.); a Sufi who belongs to the Qadiri Tariqa.
Qawwal: One who chants in the liturgy, also known as a zakir.
