Qible or Qiblah: The direction towards which Muslims face to pray, towards the
Ka’bah in Mecca.
Qudsi-Hadith: Lit., Holy Tradition; a documented eyewitness account of a saying or
action of Prophet Muhammed (a.s.): also known as Hadiths-i-
Qudsi or hadith.
Quran: Also Koran, Revelation from Allah. Lit., “recitation or lecture”; the holy
scripture revealed to Prophet Muhammed (a.s.) over the course of
twenty-three years; the last scripture revealed to mankind.
Qutb: Lit., “pole”; a person of extremely high spiritual level who acts as administrator
in the spiritual hierarchy of the world; a conduit of spiritual power
from Allah, through whom it is distributed in the world.
Qutb al Zaman: The Supreme Qutb; the living head of the spiritual administration.
R
Rabb: Lord, Sustainer.
Rabbi: “My Lord.”
Rabita: From the root “rab,” “binding,” to keep inward contact with one’s guide through
tawajjuh, concentrating one’s being upon another. Spiritual
connection between a person and Allah, or between two people; A
Sufi practice of purposeful spiritual connection between a Shaykh
and his student.
Radiyallahu anh: “May Allah be pleased with him”; one of the honorific phrases
traditionally uttered after mentioning the name of one of the
Prophet’s (a.s.)
Khalifas or a great saint; abbr. r.a.
Rafiq: Extreme softness of character.
Rahbar: Lit., “Conductor,” a spiritual guide.
Rak’at: A unit of ritual prayer including standing, bowing, sitting and prostrating.
Raqsh: Dancing.
Rasul: A messenger.
Rifa’i: Name of a widely known Sufi tariqa founded by Ahmed Rifai (1120-1183 C.E.).
A Sufi who belongs to the Rifai Tariqa.
Ru’yah: Lit., “vision,” esp. of a spiritual nature.
Ruh: Spirit, which contains divine secret; soul.
Ruhani Ruh: Lit., “the holy spirit”; one of the four composite human souls; the soul
whose substance issues forth from the essence of Allah.
Ruhsat: Concession or permission given by a Shaykh to perform a certain practice
or organizational function.
S
Sadiq: One who is loyal.
Safa: A state of spiritual tranquility.
Safabillah: Lit., “Being eternally happy with Allah.”
Sahabe: Lit., “companions”; Prophet Muhammed’s (a.s.) early followers, who
accompanied him in his daily life for spiritual enrichment
and to be at his disposal to provide any needed service.
Sahv: Lit., “sobriety,” the condition of the mature practitioner who has returned to
normative consciousness after sukr.
Sajjada: Prayer rug; a small rug on which Muslims traditionally offer ritual prayer
five times daily. A prayer rug which signifies the post of the
Shaykh.
Salams: The greeting of peace.
Salat: Islamic prayer, synonymous with namaz (pers).
Salawat: Asking Allah for peace and blessings upon the Prophet Muhammed (a.s.)
Salik: Lit., “traveler”; a seeker of spiritual realization.
Salla Allahu ‘Alayhi was Salam: “May Allah’s peace and blessings be upon him”,
spoken or written after Muhammed’s (a.s.) name.
