Sanjak: A flag representing the order and its founder.
Sattar: Covering another’s shame; hiding others’ faults from themselves and the public;
concealing another’s shortcomings.
Sayrifullah: Lit., “journeying with Allah.”
Sayrima’ Allah: Lit., “journeying with Allah.”
Sayyids: Descendants of the Prophet (a.s.)
Sefiroth: Divine attributes which emanate from the unified Being of God throughout
the universe, according to the Kabbala, a body of Jewish mystical
doctrine; spiritual perception points in the human body which
correspond to divine attributes in the universe, e.g., mercy and
judgment.
Sema: Lit., “audition,” a spiritual concert or zikr accompanied by music and sometimes
turning (whirling).
Seyrani Ruh: Lit., “moving soul”: one of the four composite human souls; the soul
whose substance issues from the realm of angels, dreams, and jinn.
Seyyid: A descendant of Prophet Muhammed (a.s.).
Shafiq: Extreme kindness.
Sharia: the body of Islamic religious canons.
Shaykh: Lit., “elder,” appointed master in an order of dervishes. Commonly used in the
Middle East as an honorific title, to signify elder, teacher, tribal
leader; authorized teacher of tasawwuf.
Shirk: Sin, associating partners with Allah.
Siddiq: One who is truthful; an honorific title usually reserved for Abu Bakr (r.a.), the
Prophet Muhammed’s (a.s.) friend and Khalifa.
Silsillah: Lit., “chain,” the lineage of a Tariqat descending from the Prophet
Muhammed (a.s.) through his Companion, Ali Ibn Abu Talib or (in
some cases) Abu Bakr, or both. The chain of transmission includes
all Murshids of the order up to the present.
Silsiletil Zehep: the Golden Chain
Sirr: Secret, mystery.
Sohbet: A divinely inspired talk given by a Shaykh among his students.
Soffreh: A cloth spread on the floor used for meals.
Sufi: Lit., “wearer of wool.” In the Qadiri Rifa’i, one who has entered an order as a
novice.
Sufism: Modern Western term for tasawwuf, the system of spiritual cleansing practiced
by Sufis.
Sukr: Mystical intoxication, often accompanying wajd or fana
Sultani Ruh: Lit., “divine soul,” one of the four composite human souls; the soul whose
substance issues from the spiritual realm of the archangels.
Suluk: The path of a seeker; the particular life’s course or path of each student of
Sufism; the sum of experiences, both spiritual and mundane
in the life of a student of Sufism.
Sunna: Observed behavior of the Prophet (a.s.).
Sura: One of the one hundred fourteen sections of Quran, roughly translated as
“chapter”.
T
Ta’ifa: Lit., “group,” may designate a branch of an order.
Tafakkur: Meditative contemplation.
Tafsir: Explaining.
Taj: Lit., “crown”: the hat worn by a dervish.
Tajallay-i-sirr: The spiritual state of knowing the secret of creation.
Tajallay-i-sirrul sirr: The spiritual state of knowing the secret of the secret of
creation
Tajalli: The state of irradiation, epiphany, or theophany.
Talib: A candidate or aspirant to formal membership in a Sufi order.
Talqin: Inculcation; the practice of deliberate mental self-conditioning. Private spiritual
