instruction, transmitted orally or through other spiritual means.
Tariqa: Lit., “path,” the Sufi path, or school of spiritual study; the path to Allah
as exemplified in the behavior of Prophet Muhammed (a.s.);
a particular Sufi school, or order.
Tariqat: Lit., “way to,” order of Sufism founded by a recognized member of a silsillah.
Tassarruf: Executive spiritual power; a Shaykh’s authority to exercise spiritual
power at his discretion.
Tasawwuf: “Contemplative tradition,” exact equivalent for Sufism as a whole. The
system of spiritual cleansing known in the West as Sufism.
Tawba: Repentance.
Tawhid: Unity and oneness of God, the direct perception of the central tenet of Islam,
Allah’s absolute singularity.
Tawwakul: Complete trust in and reliance upon God alone.
Tekke (Turk): Lit., “corner,” a dervish gathering place, synonymous with Khaniqah
(Pers.) and Zawiyya (Ar.).
Tesbih: Lit., “glorification,” string of beads used in counting prayers.
Torah: The first five Books of the Old Testament, also known as the Pentateuch.
V
Verd: A set of prayers done in addition to the required 5 daily prayers (salat).
W
Wahdat al Wujud: “oneness of Being” (Ibn al Arabi), the absolute non-duality of
existence.
Wajd: The state of ecstasy.
Wakil: A guardian, representative of a Shaykh, lower in rank than a Khalifa. In the
Qadiri Rifa’i Tariqat, a wakil is permitted to lead a zikr.
Wali: Lit., “protecting friend,” a saint or someone who has attained a high degree of
realization, on which Allah has bestowed this attribute. Within the
Qadiri Rifa’i, a salik who may or may not be promoted to the
position of a guide. One of Allah’s Beautiful Names or attributes.
Waliullah: Lit., “Friend of Allah,” an honorific title usually reserved for Ali Ibn Abi
Talib (r.a.), Prophet Muhammed’s (a.s.) cousin and designated
representative.
Wazifa: Personal practice whereby a student of Sufism repeatedly invokes the
attributes of Allah according to a formula prescribed by his
teacher; individual zikr.
Wilayat: The state of protective friendship, a spiritual level attained by a Sufi on
whom Allah has bestowed His attribute Al-Wali, the Protecting
Friend.
Y
Yaqin: Lit., “certainty,” usually connoting conviction (of various degrees) concerning
the goal of the path. Undeniably sure knowledge.
Z
Zakir: One who chants in the liturgy, also known as a qawwal.
Zat: Essence or person of a being.
Zikr: Lit., “remembrance,” individual or collective meditation employing the names of
Allah. Traditional Sufi liturgy, exercised both congregationally and
individually.
Zina: Adultery
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Main_Page an excellent site for looking up words
http://encyclopedia.thefreedictionary.com/Tarsus+%28city%29
