For New Students
In our tariqa our focus is Allah only. Our example of a human being and how to behave is the Prophet
Muhammed (a.s.). Our manual for living is the Holy Quran.
Our path is not an easy path, because you must battle your nafs (selfish ego and its desires and its shirk,
etc.) and Shaytan's whispering and the doubts you may encounter. You must learn to trust in Allah only and
where and how Allah leads you. You must surrender to Allah's will.
Our path is a path of action. Talk little, act more. We learn Allah in our life. We must hold on to the
rope of Allah and not let go. We do not believe blindly. We ask questions and investigate until we know
internally. In our path we learn from the inside out. We get the learning and the behavior follows.
Our path is about adab, proper behavior in all situations, through adversity and good times. In adversity
we still hold on to the rope of Allah. The student gets individual attention and lessons. The student is a
sincere person who wants Allah only and is willing to go through the fire without letting go of the rope of
Allah.
Our path is the path of love. The shortest distance between you and Allah is love. We learn through
love, not fear. Our only fear is that Allah will dismiss us from Allah's service.
Are you willing to hold fast to the rope of Allah? Are you ready to take the step to polish your heart,
clean your nafs, and surrender to Allah though it may be very difficult?
The students whom we guide must be active in their path. There is no "abracadabra" boom! You are
"enlightened." It is hard and difficult work because Allah wants only the sincere, believing people for
Himself. Look at what the most beloved people of Allah had to endure and go through. The prophets, I
mean. Allah is merciful enough that He won't give us such a journey, but fighting our nafs is difficult
enough. If you are ready for such a journey, then you may belong to us. Shaykh Taner may be your guide
and teacher.
Please answer the following questions:
1. Who are you?
2. Where do you live?
3. How old are you?
4. Where did you hear about Sufism?
5. What do you know about Sufism?
6. Why do you want to know about Sufism?
7. Why have you contacted us, specifically?
8. Are you willing to donate monthly to our tariqa (see paragraph below)?
9. Have you studied any discipline, such as the arts, science, martial arts or sports?
10. Can you take criticism without defending yourself?
11. How do you learn?
12. Are you taking any medications?
13. What mental or health problems do you currently have?
14. Are you willing to look at your habits and be honest with yourself and your shaykh?
15. Do you have problems with trust and/or authority?
Tithing to the Tariqat
The dergah is for the use of all the dervishes. The Shaykh gives the teachings of Allah at no charge. It is the
responsibility of each dervish to realize there are needs in the dergah and then to search his or her heart in
order to know what he or she can offer to the fund. Your tax-deductible monthly donation provides and
supports the daily operation of the Tariqa, publications, savings towards a school, a retreat center, a
cemetery, travel to spread the message, and scholarships for spiritual education to study at home or abroad.
It is required that the murid pay a monthly tithe to the tariqa. Tithe and donations are the main source of
income for the tariqa. The suggested minimum contribution is $50 per month, as agreed upon by the group.
If you can afford more, donate more. If you have limited income, then donate less. Send your contribution
to Qadiri Rifa’i Tariqa or QRT, P.O. Box 833, Nassau, NY 12123 U.S.A. Thank you.
